<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
  <h2 id="heading_id_2">Partner Management</h2>

  <p>Partner management refers to a continuum of activities designed to increase the number of infected persons brought to treatment and disrupt transmission networks. Part of this continuum is partner notification — the process by which providers or public health authorities learn about the sex- and needle-sharing partners of infected patients and help to arrange for partner evaluation and treatment. Clinical-care providers can obtain this information and help to arrange for evaluation and treatment of sex partners directly or by cooperating with state and local health departments. The types and comprehensiveness of existing partner services and the specific STDs for which they are offered vary by provider, public health agency, and geographic area. Ideally, persons referred to such services should also receive health counseling and should be referred for other health services as appropriate.</p>

  <p>Data are limited regarding whether partner notification effectively decreases exposure to STDs and whether it reduces the incidence and prevalence of these infections in a com- munity. Nevertheless, evaluations of partner notification interventions have documented the important contribution this approach can make to case-finding in clinical and com- munity contexts (65). When partners are treated, index patients have reduced risk for reinfection. Therefore, providers should encourage persons with STDs to notify their sex partners and urge them to seek medical evaluation and treatment. Further, providers can ask patients to bring partners with them when returning for treatment. Time spent with index patients to counsel them on the importance of notifying partners is associ- ated with improved notification outcomes (66).</p>

  <p>When patients diagnosed with chlamydia or gonorrhea indicate that their partners are unlikely to seek evaluation and</p>

  <p>treatment, providers can offer patient-delivered partner therapy (PDPT), a form of expedited partner therapy (EPT) in which partners of infected persons are treated without previous medical evaluation or prevention counseling. Because EPT might be prohibited in some states and is the topic of ongoing legislation in others (67), providers should visit <a href="www.cdc.gov/std/ept">www.cdc.gov/std/ept</a> to obtain updated information for their individual jurisdiction. Any medication or prescription provided for PDPT should be accompanied by treatment instructions, appropriate warnings about taking medications (if the partner is pregnant or has an allergy to the medication), general health counseling, and a statement advising that partners seek personal medical evalu- ation, particularly women with symptoms of STDs or PID.</p>

  <p>The evidence supporting PDPT is based on three clinical trials that included heterosexual men and women with chlamydia or gonorrhea. The trials and meta-analyses revealed that the magnitude of reduction in reinfection of index case-patients compared with patient referral differed according to the STD and the sex of the index case-patient (68–71). However, across trials, reductions in chlamydia prevalence at follow-up were approximately 20%; reductions in gonorrhea at follow-up were approximately 50%. Rates of notification increased in some trials and were equivalent to patient referral without PDPT in others. Existing data suggest that PDPT also might have a role in partner management for trichomoniasis; however, no single partner management intervention has been shown to be more effective than any other in reducing reinfection rates (72,73). No data support the use of PDPT in the routine management of patients with syphilis. No studies have been published involving PDPT for gonorrhea or chlamydia among MSM.</p>

  <p>Public health program involvement with partner notification services varies by locale and by STD. Some programs have considered partner notification in a broader context, developing interventions to address sexual and social networks in which persons are exposed to STDs. Prospective evaluations incorporating the assessment of venues, community structure, and social and sexual contacts in conjunction with partner notification efforts have improved case-finding and illustrated transmission networks (74,75). While such efforts are beyond the scope of individual clinicians, support of and collaboration with STD programs by clinicians are critical to the success of social network-based interventions.</p>

  <p>Certain evidence supports the use of the internet to facilitate partner notification (76), especially among MSM and in cases where no other identifying information is available, and many health departments now conduct formal internet partner notification (IPN) (<a href="http://www.ncsddc.org/upload/%20wysiwyg/documents/NGuidelinesforInternet.htm">http://www.ncsddc.org/upload/ wysiwyg/documents/NGuidelinesforInternet.htm</a>). Clinical providers are unlikely to participate directly in IPN. However, when discussing partner notification approaches with patients,&nbsp;they should be aware of the value of the internet in this type of communication and should know where to refer patients who are interested in using the internet to notify partners about their diagnosis.</p>
</body>
</html>
