<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
  <h2 id="heading_id_2">STD/HIV Prevention Counseling</h2>

  <p>USPSTF recommends high-intensity behavioral counseling for all sexually active adolescents and for adults at increased risk for STDs and HIV (5,6). All providers should routinely obtain a sexual history from their patients and encourage risk- reduction using various strategies; effective delivery of prevention messages requires that providers communicate general risk-reduction messages relevant to the client and that providers educate the client about specific actions that can reduce the risk for STD/HIV transmission (e.g., abstinence, condom use, limiting the number of sex partners, modifying sexual practices, and vaccination), each of which is discussed separately in this report (see Prevention Methods). Prevention counseling is most effective if provided in a nonjudgmental and empathetic manner appropriate to the patient’s culture, language, sex, sexual orientation, age, and developmental level.</p>

  <p>Interactive counseling approaches directed at a patient’s personal risk, the situations in which risk occurs, and the use of personalized goal-setting strategies are effective in STD/ HIV prevention (5,6). One such approach, known as client- centered STD/HIV prevention counseling, involves tailoring a discussion of risk reduction to the patient’s individual situation. Client-centered counseling can increase the likelihood that the patient undertakes or enhances current risk-reduction practices, especially among persons seeking STD care. One such approach, known as Project RESPECT, demonstrated that a brief counseling intervention led to a reduced frequency of STD/HIV risk- related behaviors and resulted in lowered acquisition rates for curable STDs, including trichomoniasis, chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis (8,9). Practice models based on Project RESPECT have been successfully implemented in clinic-based settings. Other approaches use motivational interviewing to move clients toward achievable risk reduction goals. CDC provides additional information on these and other effective behavioral interventions at http://effectiveinterventions.org.</p>

  <p>Interactive counseling can be used effectively by all health-care providers, counselors, and other clinical staff trained in counseling approaches. Extensive training is not a prerequisite for effective risk reduction counseling; however, the quality of counseling is improved when providers receive training in prevention counseling methods and skill-building approaches, providers are periodically observed when providing counseling and given immediate feedback by persons with expertise in the counseling approach, counselors are periodically evalu- ated and patients asked to evaluate their level of satisfaction, and providers have access to expert assistance or referral for challenging situations. Training in client-centered counseling is available through the CDC STD/HIV Prevention Training Centers (<a href="http://www.stdhivprevention.org">http://www.stdhivpreventiontraining.org</a>).</p>

  <p>In addition to individual prevention counseling, videos and large group presentations can provide explicit information con- cerning STDs and instruction to reduce disease transmission (e.g., how to use condoms correctly). Group-based strategies have been effective in reducing the occurrence of additional STDs among persons at high risk, including those attending STD clinics (10).</p>

  <p>Because the incidence of some STDs, notably syphilis, is higher in HIV-infected persons, the use of client-centered STD counseling for HIV-infected persons has been strongly encour- aged by public health agencies and other health organizations. Consensus guidelines issued by CDC, the Health Resources and Services Administration, the HIV Medicine Association of the Infectious Diseases Society of America, and the National Institutes of Health emphasize that STD/HIV risk assessment,&nbsp;STD screening, and client-centered risk reduction counseling should be provided routinely to HIV-infected persons (11). Several specific methods have been designed for the HIV care setting (12–14), and additional information regarding these approaches is available at <a href="http://effectiveinterventions.org">http://effectiveinterventions.org</a>.</p>
</body>
</html>
