<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
  <h2 id="heading_id_2">Prevention Methods</h2>

  <p>Abstinence and Reduction of number of Sex Partners</p>

  <p>A reliable way to avoid transmission of STDs is to abstain from oral, vaginal, and anal sex or to be in a long-term, mutu- ally monogamous relationship with an uninfected partner. For persons who are being treated for an STD (or whose partners are undergoing treatment), counseling that encourages absti- nence from sexual intercourse until completion of the entire course of medication is crucial. A more comprehensive discus- sion of abstinence and other sexual practices than can help persons reduce their risk for STDs is available in Contraceptive Technology, 19th Edition (7). For persons embarking on a mutually monogamous relationship, screening for common STDs before initiating sex might reduce the risk for future disease transmission.</p>

  <p>Pre-exposure Vaccination</p>

  <p>Pre-exposure vaccination is one of the most effective methods for preventing transmission of some STDs. Two human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccines are available for females aged 9–26 years to prevent cervical precancer and cancer (15,16): the quadrivalent HPV vaccine (Gardasil) and the bivalent HPV vaccine (Cervarix). Gardasil also prevents genital warts. Routine vaccination of females aged 11 or 12 years is recommended with either vaccine, as is catch-up vaccination for females aged 13–26 years. Gardasil can be administered to males aged 9–26 years to prevent genital warts (17). Details regarding HPV vaccination are available at www.cdc.gov/std/hpv.</p>

  <p>Hepatitis B vaccination is recommended for all unvacci- nated, uninfected persons being evaluated for an STD (3,4). In addition, hepatitis A and B vaccines are recommended for men who have sex with men (MSM) and injection-drug users (IDUs) (2–4); each of these vaccines should also be adminis- tered to HIV-infected persons who have not yet been infected with one or both types of hepatitis virus. Details regarding hepatitis A and B vaccination are available at <a href="http://www.cdc.gov/hepatitis">http://www.cdc. gov/hepatitis</a>.</p>

  <p>Male Condoms</p>

  <p>When used consistently and correctly, male latex condoms are highly effective in preventing the sexual transmission of HIV infection. In heterosexual serodiscordant relationships&nbsp;(i.e., those involving one infected and one uninfected partner) in which condoms were consistently used, HIV-negative part- ners were 80% less likely to become HIV-infected compared with persons in similar relationships in which condoms were not used (18).</p>

  <p>Moreover, studies show condoms can reduce the risk for other STDs, including chlamydia, gonorrhea, and trichomo- niasis; by limiting lower genital tract infections, condoms also might reduce the risk for women developing pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) (19,20). In addition, consistent and correct use of latex condoms also reduces the risk for genital herpes, syphilis, and chancroid when the infected area or site of potential exposure is covered, although data for this effect are more limited (21–24). Additional information is available at <a href="www.cdc.gov/condomeffectiveness/latex.htm">www.cdc.gov/condomeffectiveness/latex.htm</a>.</p>

  <p>Cohort studies have demonstrated that condoms protect against the acquisition of genital HPV infection. A prospective study among newly sexually active women who were attending college demonstrated that consistent and correct condom use was associated with a 70% reduction in risk for HPV transmission (25). Use of condoms also appears to reduce the risk for HPV-associated diseases (e.g., genital warts and cervical cancer) and mitigate the adverse consequences of infection with HPV. Condom use has been associated with higher rates of regression of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) and clearance of HPV infection in women (26) and with regression of HPV-associated penile lesions in men (27).</p>

  <p>Condoms are regulated as medical devices and are subject to random sampling and testing by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Each latex condom manufactured in the United States is tested electronically for holes before pack- aging. Rates of condom breakage during sexual intercourse and withdrawal are approximately two broken condoms per 100 condoms used in the United States. The failure of condoms to protect against STD transmission or unintended pregnancy usually results from inconsistent or incorrect use rather than condom breakage (28).</p>

  <p>Male condoms made of materials other than latex are available in the United States. Two general categories of nonlatex condoms exist. The first type is made of polyurethane or other synthetic material and provides protection against STDs/HIV and pregnancy equal to that of latex condoms (29). These can be substituted for latex condoms by persons with latex allergy. Although they have had higher breakage and slippage rates when compared with latex condoms and are usually more costly, the pregnancy rates among women whose partners use these condoms are similar to those asociated with use of latex condoms (30).</p>

  <p>The second type is natural membrane condoms (frequently called “natural” condoms or, incorrectly, “lambskin” condoms).</p>

  <p>These condoms are usually made from lamb cecum and can have pores up to 1,500 nm in diameter. Although these pores do not allow the passage of sperm, they are more than 10 times the diameter of HIV and more than 25 times that of HBV (29). Moreover, laboratory studies demonstrate that viral STD transmission can occur with natural membrane condoms (29). Use of natural membrane condoms for prevention of STDs is not recommended.</p>

  <p>Providers should advise their patients that condoms must be used consistently and correctly to be effective in preventing STDs; providing instructions about the correct use of condoms can be useful. Communicating the following recommendations can help ensure that patients use male condoms correctly:</p>

  <p>• Use a new condom with each sex act (i.e., oral, vaginal, and anal).</p>

  <p>• Carefully handle the condom to avoid damaging it with fingernails, teeth, or other sharp objects.</p>

  <p>• Put the condom on after the penis is erect and before any genital, oral, or anal contact with the partner.</p>

  <p>• Use only water-based lubricants (e.g., K-Y Jelly, Astroglide, AquaLube, and glycerin) with latex condoms. Oil-based lubricants (e.g., petroleum jelly, shortening, mineral oil, massage oils, body lotions, and cooking oil) can weaken latex and should not be used.</p>

  <p>• Ensure adequate lubrication during vaginal and anal sex, which might require the use of exogenous water-based lubricants.</p>

  <p>• To prevent the condom from slipping off, hold the condom firmly against the base of the penis during withdrawal, and withdraw while the penis is still erect.</p>

  <p>Female Condoms</p>

  <p>Laboratory studies indicate that the female condom (Reality) is an effective mechanical barrier to viruses, including HIV, and to semen. The first female condom approved for use in the United States consisted of a lubricated polyurethane sheath with a ring on each end that is inserted into the vagina. A newer version made from nitrile is now available in the United States.</p>

  <p>A limited number of clinical studies have evaluated the efficacy of female condoms in providing protection from STDs, including HIV (31,32). Although female condoms are costly compared with male condoms, sex partners should consider using a female condom when a male condom cannot be used properly. The female condom also has been used for STDs/HIV protection during receptive anal intercourse (33); although it might provide some protection in this setting, its efficacy remains unknown.</p>

  <p>Cervical Diaphragms</p>

  <p>In observational studies, diaphragm use has been demonstrated to protect against cervical gonorrhea, chlamydia, and trichomoniasis (34). A recent trial examined the effect of use of a diaphragm plus polycarbophil (Replens) lubricant on HIV acquisition in women in Africa relative to male condom use alone. The study revealed that neither the diaphragm nor the lubricant gel provided additional protective effect when compared with the use of condoms alone (35). Likewise, no difference by study arm in the rate of acquisition of chlamydia or gonorrhea occurred; however, data from participants who reported following the protocol for the use of these products suggested that consistent use of the diaphragm plus gel might reduce acquisition of gonorrhea (36). Diaphragms should not be relied on as the sole source of protection against HIV infec- tion. Diaphragm and nonoxynol-9 (N-9) spermicide use have been associated with an increased risk for bacterial urinary-tract infections in women (37).</p>

  <p>Topical Microbicides and Spermicides</p>

  <p>Studies examining nonspecific topical microbicides for the prevention of HIV and STD have demonstrated that these products are ineffective (38,39). Studies of spermicides containing N-9 have demonstrated that they should not be recommended for STDs/HIV prevention (40), and more recent randomized controlled trials have failed to show a protective effect against HIV acquisition for BufferGel (a vaginal buffering agent), Carraguard (a carrageenan derivative) (41), cellulose sulfate (an HIV entry inhibitor), (42) and SAVVY (1.0% C31G, a surfactant) (43,44).</p>

  <p>Initial results from a study in which participants used 0.5% PRO2000 vaginal gel (a synthetic polyanion polymer that blocks cellular entry of HIV) on a daily basis appeared promising, reducing the rate of HIV acquisition by 30% relative to no gel (45). However, a recent randomized trial of approximately 9,000 women failed to show any protective effect (46).</p>

  <p>Topical antiretroviral agents for the prevention of HIV appear more promising. Use of tenofovir gel during sexual intercourse significantly reduced the rate of HIV acquisi- tion (i.e., by 39%) in a study of South African women (47). Additional studies are being undertaken to elucidate the opti- mal dosing regimens for this drug.</p>

  <p>Other products remain under study, including VivaGel, a topical vaginal microbicide. A list of products under development is maintained by the Alliance for Microbicide Development at www.microbicide.org.</p>

  <p>Condoms and n-9 Vaginal Spermicides</p>

  <p>Condoms lubricated with spermicides are no more effective than other lubricated condoms in protecting against the&nbsp;transmission of HIV and other STDs (www.cdc.gov/condo- meffectiveness/latex.htm). Furthermore, frequent use of sper- micides containing N-9 has been associated with disruption of the genital epithelium, which might be associated with an increased risk for HIV transmission (40). Therefore, use of condoms lubricated with N-9 is not recommended for STD/ HIV prevention; in addition, spermicide-coated condoms cost more, have a shorter shelf-life than other lubricated condoms, and have been associated with urinary-tract infection in young women (37).</p>

  <p>Rectal Use of n-9 Spermicides</p>

  <p>N-9 can damage the cells lining the rectum, which might provide a portal of entry for HIV and other sexually transmis- sible agents. Therefore, it should not used as a microbicide or lubricant during anal intercourse by MSM or by women.</p>

  <p>nonbarrier Contraception, Surgical Sterilization, and Hysterectomy</p>

  <p>Contraceptive methods that are not mechanical barriers offer no protection against HIV or other STDs. Sexually active women who use hormonal contraception (i.e., oral contracep- tives, Norplant, and Depo-Provera), have intrauterine devices (IUDs), have been surgically sterilized, or have had hyster- ectomies should be counseled regarding the use of condoms and the risk for STDs, including HIV infection, because these women might incorrectly perceive that they are not at risk for these diseases. Women who take oral contraceptives and are prescribed certain antibiotics should be counseled about potential interactions (7).</p>

  <p>Male Circumcision</p>

  <p>Although male circumcision should not be substituted for other HIV risk-reduction strategies, it has been shown to reduce the risk for HIV and some STDs in heterosexual men. Three randomized, controlled trials performed in regions of sub-Saharan Africa where generalized HIV epidemics involving predominantly heterosexual transmission were occurring demonstrated that male circumcision reduced the risk for HIV acquisition among men by 50%–60% (48–50). In these trials, circumcision was also protective against other STDs, including high-risk genital HPV infection and genital herpes (51–54). Despite these data, male circumcision has not been demonstrated to reduce the risk for HIV or other STDs among MSM (55). The World Health Organization (WHO) and the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) have recommended that male circumcision be scaled up as an effective intervention for the prevention of heterosexually acquired HIV infection (56). These organizations also recommend that countries with hyperendemic and generalized HIV&nbsp;epidemics and low prevalence of male circumcision expand access to safe male circumcision services within the context of ensuring universal access to comprehensive HIV prevention, treatment, care, and support. Similar recommendations have not been made in the United States, although evidence regarding the role of male circumcision in the prevention of HIV/ AIDS is under review (57).</p>

  <p>Emergency Contraception (EC)</p>

  <p>Women who might have been exposed to STDs during a recent act of unprotected intercourse also are at risk for pregnancy. Providers managing such women should offer coun- seling about the option of EC if pregnancy is not desired. In the United States, EC products are available over-the-counter to women aged ≥17 years and by prescription to younger women. If these EC pill products are not readily accessible, many commonly available brands of oral contraceptive pills can effectively provide EC, but women must be instructed to take an appropriate and specified number of tablets at one time. All oral EC regimens are efficacious when initiated as soon as possible after unprotected sex, but have some efficacy as long as 5 days later. EC is ineffective (but is also not harmful) if the woman is already pregnant (58). More information about EC is available in the 19th edition of Contraceptive Technology (7) or <a href="http://ec.princeton.edu/emergency-contraception.html">http://ec.princeton.edu/emergency-contraception.html.</a></p>

  <p>Insertion of an IUD up to 7 days after unprotected sex can reduce pregnancy risk by more than 99% (7). However, this method is not advisable for a woman who may have untreated cervical gonorrhea or chlamydia, who is already pregnant, or who has other contraindications to IUD use.</p>

  <p>Postexposure Prophylaxis (PEP) for HIV and STD</p>

  <p>Guidelines for the use of PEP aimed at preventing HIV infection as a result of sexual exposure are available and are discussed in this report (see Sexual Assault and STDs). Genital hygiene methods (e.g., vaginal washing and douching) after sexual exposure are ineffective in protecting against HIV and STD and might increase the risk for bacterial vaginosis, some STDs, and HIV (59).</p>

  <p>Pre-exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) for HIV and STD</p>

  <p>Antiretroviral therapy (ART) has the potential to impact transmission and acquisition of HIV. In HIV-infected persons, ART reduces viral load and presumably reduces infectiousness (60). In HIV-uninfected persons, ART might reduce suscepti- bility to infection, a concept supported both by animal stud- ies and by a study of safety and acceptability involving West African women (61,62). A randomized, placebo-controlled&nbsp;trial involving South African women recently demonstrated that use of tenofovir gel associated with sexual intercourse significantly reduced the rate of HIV and herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) acquisition by 39% and 51%, respectively (47,63).</p>

  <p>Several large randomized controlled trials of PrEP are either underway or planned. These involve the oral use of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (tenofovir or tenofovir-emtricitabine) or vaginal use of 1% tenofovir gel.</p>

  <p>Retesting to Detect Repeat Infections</p>

  <p>Retesting several months after a diagnosis of chlamydia or gonorrhea can detect repeat infection and potentially can be used to enhance population-based prevention (64). Further details on retesting can be found in the specific sections on chlamydia and gonorrhea within this report.</p>

  <p><br /></p>
</body>
</html>
