<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
  <h1 id="heading_id_2">Diseases Characterized by Genital, Anal, or Perianal Ulcers</h1>

  <p>In the United States, most young, sexually active patients who have genital, anal, or perianal ulcers have either genital herpes or syphilis. The frequency of each condition differs by geographic area and population; however, genital herpes is the most prevalent of these diseases. More than one etiologic agent (e.g., herpes and syphilis) can be present in a genital, anal, or perianal ulcer. Less common infectious causes of genital, anal, or perianal ulcers include chancroid and donovanosis. HSV, syphilis, and chancroid have been associated with an increased risk for HIV transmission, and genital, anal, or perianal lesions might be associated with conditions that are not sexually transmitted (e.g., yeast, trauma, carcinoma, aphthae, fixed drug eruption, and psoriasis).</p>

  <p>A diagnosis based only on the patient’s medical history and physical examination frequently is inaccurate. Therefore, all patients who have genital, anal, or perianal ulcers should be evaluated with a serologic test for syphilis and a diagnostic evaluation for genital herpes; in settings where chancroid is prevalent, a test for Haemophilus ducreyi should also be per-formed. Specific tests for evaluation of genital, anal, or perianal ulcers include 1) syphilis serology and darkfield examination; 2) culture for HSV or PCR testing for HSV; and 3) serologic testing for type-specific HSV antibody.</p>

  <p>No FDA-cleared PCR test to diagnose either herpes or syphilis is available in the United States; however, such testing can be performed by clinical laboratories that have developed their own tests and have conducted a Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendment (CLIA) verification study. Type-specific serology for HSV-2 might be helpful in identifying persons with genital herpes (see Genital Herpes, Type-Specific Serologic Tests). In addition, biopsy of genital, anal, or perianal ulcers can help identify the cause of ulcers that are unusual or that do not respond to initial therapy. HIV testing should be performed on all persons with genital, anal, or perianal ulcers&nbsp;who are not known to have HIV infection (see Diagnostic Considerations, sections on Syphilis, Chancroid, and Genital Herpes Simplex Virus).</p>

  <p>Health-care providers frequently must treat patients before test results are available, because early treatment decreases the possibility of ongoing transmission and because successful treatment of genital herpes depends on prompt initiation of therapy. The clinician should empirically treat for the diagnosis considered most likely on the basis of clinical presentation and epidemiologic circumstances (including travel history); even after complete diagnostic evaluation, at least 25% of patients who have genital ulcers have no laboratory-confirmed diagnosis.</p>
</body>
</html>
