<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
  <h1 id="heading_id_2">References</h1>

  <p>1. CDC. Sexually transmitted diseases treatment guidelines, 2006. MMWR 2006;55(No. RR-11).</p>

  <p>2. CDC. Prevention of hepatitis A through active or passive immunization:&nbsp;recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). MMWR 2006;55(No. RR-7).</p>

  <p>3. CDC. A comprehensive immunization strategy to eliminate transmission of hepatitis B virus infection in the United States: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) Part II: immunization of adults. MMWR 2006;55(No. RR-16).</p>

  <p>4. CDC. A comprehensive immunization strategy to eliminate transmission&nbsp;of hepatitis B virus infection in the United States: recommendations&nbsp;of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) Part 1: immunization of infants, children, and adolescents. MMWR 2005;54(No. RR-16).</p>

  <p>5. Lin JS, Whitlock E, O‘Connor E, et al. Behavioral counseling to prevent&nbsp;sexually transmitted infections: a systematic review for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Ann Intern Med 2008; 149:497–9.</p>

  <p>6. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Behavioral counseling to prevent sexually transmitted infections: recommendation statement. Ann Intern Med 2008;149:491–6.</p>

  <p>7. Hatcher RA, Trussell J, Nelson AL, et al. Contraceptive technology. 19th ed. New York: Ardent Media; 2007.</p>

  <p>8. Kamb ML, Fishbein M, Douglas JM, Jr., et al. Project RESPECT Study Group. Efficacy of risk-reduction counseling to prevent human immunodeficiency virus and sexually transmitted diseases: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA 1998;280:1161–7.</p>

  <p>9. Gottlieb SL, Douglas JM, Jr., Foster M, et al. Incidence of herpes simplex virus type 2 infection in 5 sexually transmitted disease (STD) clinics and the effect of HIV/STD risk-reduction counseling. J Infect Dis 2004;190:1059–67.</p>

  <p>10. Warner L, Klausner JD, Rietmeijer CA, et al. Effect of a brief video intervention on incident infection among patients attending sexually transmitted disease clinics. PLoS Med 2008;5:e135.</p>

  <p>11. CDC, Health Resources and Services Administration, National Institutes of Health, NIV Medicine Association of the Infectious Diseases Society of American, HIV Prevention in Clinical Care Working Group. Recommendations for incorporating human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) prevention into the medical care of persons living with HIV. Clin Infect Dis 2004;38:104–21.</p>

  <p>12. Wingood GM, DiClemente RJ, Mikhail I, et al. A randomized controlled trial to reduce HIV transmission risk behaviors and sexually transmitted</p>

  <p>diseases among women living with HIV: The WiLLOW Program. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 2004;37(Suppl 2):S58–67.</p>

  <p>13. Richardson JL, Milam J, Stoyanoff S, et al. Using patient risk indicators to plan prevention strategies in the clinical care setting. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 2004;37(Suppl 2):S88–94.</p>

  <p>14. Fisher JD, Cornman DH, Osborn CY, et al. Clinician-initiated HIV risk reduction intervention for HIV-positive persons: Formative Research, Acceptability, and Fidelity of the Options Project. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 2004;37(Suppl 2):S78–87.</p>

  <p>15. CDC. Quadrivalent human papillomavirus vaccine: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). MMWR 2007;56(No. RR-2).</p>

  <p>16. CDC. FDA licensure of bivalent human papillomavirus vaccine (HPV2, Cervarix) for use in females and updated HPV vaccination recommendations</p>

  <p>from the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). MMWR 2010;59:626–9.</p>

  <p>17. CDC. FDA licensure of quadrivalent human papillomavirus vaccine (HPV4, Gardasil) for use in males and guidance from the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). MMWR 2010;59:630–2.</p>

  <p>18. Weller S, Davis K. Condom effectiveness in reducing heterosexual HIV transmission. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2002;(1):CD003255.</p>

  <p>19. Ness RB, Randall H, Richter HE, et al. Condom use and the risk of recurrent pelvic inflammatory disease, chronic pelvic pain, or infertility following an episode of pelvic inflammatory disease. Am J Public Health 2004;94:1327–9.</p>

  <p>20. Holmes KK, Levine R, Weaver M. Effectiveness of condoms in preventing&nbsp;sexually transmitted infections. Bull World Health Organ 2004;82:454–61.</p>

  <p>21. Wald A, Langenberg AG, Krantz E, et al. The relationship between condom use and herpes simplex virus acquisition. Ann Intern Med 2005;143:707–13.</p>

  <p>22. Martin ET, Krantz E, Gottlieb SL, et al. A pooled analysis of the effect of condoms in preventing HSV-2 acquisition. Arch Intern Med 2009;169:1233–40.</p>

  <p>23. Wald A, Langenberg AG, Link K, et al. Effect of condoms on reducing the transmission of herpes simplex virus type 2 from men to women. JAMA 2001;285:3100–6.</p>

  <p>24. Koss CA, Dunne EF, Warner L. A systematic review of epidemiologic studies assessing condom use and risk of syphilis. Sex Transm Dis 2009;36:401–5.</p>

  <p>25. Winer RL, Hughes JP, Feng Q, et al. Condom use and the risk of genital&nbsp;human papillomavirus infection in young women. N Engl J Med 2006;354:2645–54.</p>

  <p>26. Hogewoning CJ, Bleeker MC, van den Brule AJ, et al. Condom use promotes regression of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia and clearance of human papillomavirus: a randomized clinical trial. Int J Cancer 2003;107:811–6.</p>

  <p>27. Bleeker MC, Hogewoning CJ, Voorhorst FJ, et al. Condom use promotes regression of human papillomavirus-associated penile lesions in male sexual partners of women with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. Int J Cancer 2003;107:804–10.</p>

  <p>28. Steiner MJ, Cates W Jr, Warner L. The real problem with male condoms is nonuse. Sex Transm Dis 1999;26:459–62.</p>

  <p>29. NIAID. Workshop summary: scientific evidence on condom effectiveness for sexually transmitted disease (STD) prevention. 2001. Available at www.niaid.nih.gov/about/organization/dmid/documents/condomreport.pdf.</p>

  <p>30. Gallo MF, Grimes DA, Lopez LM, Schulz KF. Non-latex versus latex male condoms for contraception. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2006;1:CD003550.</p>

  <p>31. Macaluso M, Blackwell R, Jamieson DJ, et al. Efficacy of the male latex condom and of the female polyurethane condom as barriers to semen during intercourse: a randomized clinical trial. Am J Epidemiol 2007;166:88–96.</p>

  <p>32. French PP, Latka M, Gollub EL, et al. Use-effectiveness of the female versus male condom in preventing sexually transmitted disease in women. Sex Transm Dis 2003;30:433–9.</p>

  <p>33. Gross M, Buchbinder SP, Holte S, et al. Use of reality “female condoms” for anal sex by US men who have sex with men. HIVNET Vaccine Preparedness Study Protocol Team. Am J Public Health 1999;89:1739–41.</p>

  <p>34. Minnis AM, Padian NS. Effectiveness of female controlled barrier methods in preventing sexually transmitted infections and HIV: current evidence and future research directions. Sex Transm Infect 2005;81:193–200.</p>

  <p>35. Padian NS, van der SA, Ramjee G, et al. Diaphragm and lubricant gel for prevention of HIV acquisition in southern African women: a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2007;370:251–61.</p>

  <p>36. Ramjee G, van der SA, Chipato T, et al. The diaphragm and lubricant gel for prevention of cervical sexually transmitted infections: results of a randomized controlled trial. PLoS One 2008;3:e3488.</p>

  <p>37. Fihn SD, Boyko EJ, Normand EH, et al. Association between use of spermicide-coated condoms and Escherichia coli urinary tract infection in young women. Am J Epidemiol 1996;144:512–20.</p>

  <p>38. Padian NS, Buve A, Balkus J, et al. Biomedical interventions to prevent&nbsp;HIV infection: evidence, challenges, and way forward. Lancet 2008;372:585–99.</p>

  <p>39. Cates W, Feldblum P. HIV prevention research: the ecstasy and the agony. Lancet 2008;372:1932–3.</p>

  <p>40. Wilkinson D, Tholandi M, Ramjee G, et al. Nonoxynol-9 spermicide for prevention of vaginally acquired HIV and other sexually transmitted&nbsp;infections: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials including more than 5000 women. Lancet Infect Dis 2002;2:613–7.</p>

  <p>41. Skoler-Karpoff S, Ramjee G, Ahmed K, et al. Efficacy of Carraguard for prevention of HIV infection in women in South Africa: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2008;372:1977–87.</p>

  <p>42. Van DL, Govinden R, Mirembe FM, et al. Lack of effectiveness of cellulose sulfate gel for the prevention of vaginal HIV transmission. N Engl J Med 2008;359:463–72.</p>

  <p>43. Feldblum PJ, Adeiga A, Bakare R, et al. SAVVY vaginal gel (C31G) for prevention of HIV infection: a randomized controlled trial in Nigeria. PLoS One 2008;3:e1474.</p>

  <p>44. Peterson L, Nanda K, Opoku BK, et al. SAVVY (C31G) gel for prevention&nbsp;of HIV infection in women: a phase 3, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial in Ghana. PLoS One 2007;2:e1312.</p>

  <p>45. Karim SA, Coletti A, Richardson BS. Safety and effectiveness of vaginal microbicides BufferGel and 0.5% PRO 2000/5 gel for the prevention of HIV infection in women: results of the HPTN 035 trial. In: 16th Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections, Montreal, Canada, 2009.</p>

  <p>46. Microbicides Development Programme. Technical fact sheet for scientists (MDP 301). London, 2009. Available at http://www.mdp.mrc.ac.uk.</p>

  <p>47. Karim QA, Karim SS, Frohlich JA, et al. Effectiveness and safety of tenofovir gel, an antiretroviral microbicide, for the prevention of HIV infection in women. Science 2010;329:1168–74.</p>

  <p>48. Bailey RC, Moses S, Parker CB, et al. Male circumcision for HIV prevention&nbsp;in young men in Kisumu, Kenya: a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2007;369:643–6.</p>

  <p>49. Gray RH, Kigozi G, Serwadda D, et al. Male circumcision for HIV prevention in men in Rakai, Uganda: a randomised trial. Lancet 2007;369:657–66.</p>

  <p>50. Auvert B, Taljaard D, Lagarde E, et al. Randomized, controlled intervention</p>

  <p>trial of male circumcision for reduction of HIV infection risk: the ANRS 1265 Trial. PLoS Med 2005;2:e298.</p>

  <p>51. Auvert B, Sobngwi-Tambekou J, Cutler E, et al. Effect of male circumcision&nbsp;on the prevalence of high-risk human papillomavirus in young men: results of a randomized controlled trial conducted in Orange Farm, South Africa. J Infect Dis 2009;199:14–9.</p>

  <p>52. Sobngwi-Tambekou J, Taljaard D, Lissouba P, et al. Effect of HSV-2 serostatus on acquisition of HIV by young men: results of a longitudinal study in Orange Farm, South Africa. J Infect Dis 2009;199:958–64.</p>

  <p>53. Sobngwi-Tambekou J, Taljaard D, Nieuwoudt M, et al. Male circumcision</p>

  <p>and Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Chlamydia trachomatis and Trichomonas vaginalis: observations after a randomised controlled trial for HIV prevention. Sex Transm Infect 2009;85:116–20.</p>

  <p>54. Tobian AA, Serwadda D, Quinn TC, et al. Male circumcision for the prevention of HSV-2 and HPV infections and syphilis. N Engl J Med 2009;360:1298–309.</p>

  <p>55. Millett GA, Flores SA, Marks G, et al. Circumcision status and risk of HIV and sexually transmitted infections among men who have sex with men: a meta-analysis. JAMA 2008;300:1674–84.</p>

  <p>56. UNAIDS, WHO. New data on male circumcision and HIV prevention: policy and programme implications: WHO/UNAIDS technical consultation&nbsp;male circumcision and HIV prevention—research implications for policy and programming. Geneva: Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS and World Health Organization; 2007.</p>

  <p>57. Smith DK, Taylor A, Kilmarx PH, et al. Male circumcision in the United States for the prevention of HIV infection and other adverse health outcomes: report from a CDC consultation. Public Health Rep 2010;125(Suppl 1):72–82.</p>

  <p>58. Cheng L, Gulmezoglu AM, Piaggio G, et al. Interventions for emergency contraception (update of 2004 document). Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2008;(2):CD001324.</p>

  <p>59. Myer L, Kuhn L, Stein ZA, et al. Intravaginal practices, bacterial vaginosis,&nbsp;and women‘s susceptibility to HIV infection: epidemiological evidence&nbsp;and biological mechanisms. Lancet Infect Dis 2005;5:786–94.</p>

  <p>60. Cohen MS, Gay C, Kashuba AD, et al. Narrative review: antiretroviral therapy to prevent the sexual transmission of HIV-1. Ann Intern Med 2007;146:591–601.</p>

  <p>61. Peterson L, Taylor D, Roddy R, et al. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for prevention of HIV infection in women: a phase 2, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. PLoS Clin Trials 2007;2:e27.</p>

  <p>62. Cohen MS, Kashuba AD. Antiretroviral therapy for prevention of HIV infection: new clues from an animal model. PLoS Med 2008;5:e30.</p>

  <p>63. Karim QA, Karim SS, Frohlich JA, et al; The CAPRISA 004 Trial Group. Available at Science express/www.sciencexpress.org/19 July 2010/10.1126/science.1193748.</p>

  <p>64. Peterman TA, Tian LH, Metcalf CA, et al. High incidence of new sexually&nbsp;transmitted infections in the year following a sexually transmitted infection: a case for rescreening. Ann Intern Med 2006;145:564–72.</p>

  <p>65. Hogben M. Partner notification for sexually transmitted diseases. Clin Infect Dis 2007;44(Suppl 3):S160–74.</p>

  <p>66. Wilson TE, Hogben M, Malka ES, et al. A randomized controlled trial for reducing risks for sexually transmitted infections through enhanced patient-based partner notification. Am J Public Health 2009;99(Suppl 1):S104–10.</p>

  <p>67. Hodge JG, Jr., Pulver A, Hogben M, et al. Expedited partner therapy for sexually transmitted diseases: assessing the legal environment. Am J Public Health 2008;98:238–43.</p>

  <p>68. Golden MR, Whittington WL, Handsfield HH, et al. Effect of expedited&nbsp;treatment of sex partners on recurrent or persistent gonorrhea or chlamydial infection. N Engl J Med 2005;352:676–85.</p>

  <p>69. Schillinger JA, Kissinger P, Calvet H, et al. Patient-delivered partner treatment with azithromycin to prevent repeated Chlamydia trachomatis infection among women: a randomized, controlled trial. Sex Transm Dis 2003;30:49–56.</p>

  <p>70. Trelle S, Shang A, Nartey L, et al. Improved effectiveness of partner notification for patients with sexually transmitted infections: systematic review. BMJ 2007;334(7589):354.</p>

  <p>71. Kissinger P, Mohammed H, Richardson-Alston G, et al. Patient-delivered partner treatment for male urethritis: a randomized, controlled trial. Clin Infect Dis 2005;41:623–9.</p>

  <p>72. Kissinger P, Schmidt N, Mohammed H, et al. Patient-delivered partner treatment for Trichomonas vaginalis infection: a randomized controlled trial. Sex Transm Dis 2006;33:445–50.</p>

  <p>73. Schwebke JR, Desmond RA. A randomized controlled trial of partner notification methods for prevention of trichomoniasis in women. Sex Transm Dis 2010;37:392–6.</p>

  <p>74. Rothenberg R, Kimbrough L, Lewis-Hardy R, et al. Social network methods for endemic foci of syphilis: a pilot project. Sex Transm Dis 2000;27:12–8.</p>

  <p>75. Ogilvie G, Knowles L, Wong E, et al. Incorporating a social networking&nbsp;approach to enhance contact tracing in a heterosexual outbreak of syphilis. Sex Transm Inf 2005;81:124–7.</p>

  <p>76. Vest JR, Valadez AM, Hanner A, et al. Using e-mail to notify pseudonymous&nbsp;e-mail sexual partners. Sex Transm Dis 2007;34:840–5.</p>

  <p>77. CDC. Revised recommendations for HIV testing of adults, adolescents, and pregnant women in health-care settings. MMWR 2006;55(No. RR-14).</p>

  <p>78. CDC. Antiretroviral postexposure prophylaxis after sexual, injection-drug use, or other nonoccupational exposure to HIV in the United States: recommendations from the US Department of Health and Human Services. MMWR 2005;54(No. RR-2).</p>

  <p>79. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for syphilis infection in pregnancy: reaffirmation recommendation statement. Ann Intern Med 2009;150:705–9.</p>

  <p>80. U.S. Prevention Task Force. Screening for hepatitis B virus infection in pregnancy: reaffirmation recommendation statement. Ann Intern Med 2009;150:869–73.</p>

  <p>81. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for chlamydial infection: recommendation statement. Ann Intern Med 2007;147:128–34.</p>

  <p>82. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for gonorrhea: recommendation&nbsp;statement. Ann Fam Med 2005;3:263–7.</p>

  <p>83. Sadler L, Saftlas A, Wang W, et al. Treatment for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia and risk of preterm delivery. JAMA 2004;291:2100–6.</p>

  <p>84. Serati M, Uccella S, Laterza RM, et al. Natural history of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia during pregnancy. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand 2008;87:1296–1300.</p>

  <p>85. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for bacterial vaginosis in pregnancy to prevent preterm delivery: recommendation statement. Ann Intern Med 2008;148:214–9.</p>

  <p>86. Chou R, Smits AK, Huffman LH, et al. Prenatal screening for HIV: A review of the evidence for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Ann Intern Med 2005;143:38–54.</p>

  <p>87. American Academy of Pediatrics, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Guidelines for perinatal care, 6th ed. Washington, DC: American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; 2007.</p>

  <p>88. CDC. Rapid HIV antibody testing during labor and delivery for women of unknown HIV status: a practical guide and model protocol, 2004. Atlanta, GA: CDC, National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention; 2004.</p>

  <p>89. American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Viral hepatitis&nbsp;in pregnancy. ACOG Practice Bulletin No. 86. Obstet Gynecol 2007;110:941–56.</p>

  <p>90. Public Health Agency of Canada. Canadian guidelines on sexually transmitted infections. 2006 ed. Centre for Communicable Diseases and Infection Control; 2010. Available at http://www.phac-aspc.gc.ca/std-mts/sti-its/.</p>

  <p>91. Meyers D, Wolff T, Gregory K, et al. USPSTF recommendations for STI screening. Am Fam Physician 2008;77:819–24.</p>

  <p>92. Forhan SE, Gottlieb SL, Sternberg MR, et al. Prevalence of sexually transmitted infections among female adolescents aged 14 to 19 in the United States. Pediatrics 2009;124:1505–12.</p>

  <p>93. CDC. Sexually Transmitted Disease Surveillance, 2008. Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2009.</p>

  <p>94. CDC. Male Chlamydia Screening Consultation, Atlanta, Georgia. March 28 – 29, 2006. Meeting Report, May 2007. Available at http://www.cdc.gov/std/chlamydia/ChlamydiaScreening-males.pdf.</p>

  <p>95. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Human immunodeficiency virus infection. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; 2007. Available at http://www.ahrq.gov/clinic/uspstf/uspshivi.htm.</p>

  <p>96. American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG). Cervical cytology screening. ACOG Practice Bulletin No. 109. Obstet Gynecol 2009;114:1409–20.</p>

  <p>97. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for cervical cancer: recommendations. In press 2011.</p>

  <p>98. Sasieni P, Castanon A, Cuzick J. Effectiveness of cervical screening with age: population based case-control study of prospectively recorded data. BMJ 2009;339:b2968.</p>

  <p>99. Saslow D, Runowicz CD, Solomon D, et al. American Cancer Society guideline for the early detection of cervical neoplasia and cancer. J Low Genit Tract Dis 2003;7:67–86.</p>

  <p>100. Chow JM, Joesoef MR, Kent C, et al. Responding to the burden of STD, HIV, and viral hepatitis in correctional populations through program collaboration and integration. Sex Transm Dis 2009;36(2 Suppl):S1–2.</p>

  <p>101. Joesoef MR, Weinstock HS, Kent CK, et al. Sex and age correlates of Chlamydia prevalence in adolescents and adults entering correctional facilities, 2005: implications for screening policy. Sex Transm Dis 2009;36(2 Suppl):S67–71.</p>

  <p>102. Kahn RH, Voigt RF, Swint E, et al. Early syphilis in the United States identified in corrections facilities, 1999–2002. Sex Transm Dis 2004;31:360–4.</p>

  <p>103. Mayer KH, Klausner JD, Handsfield HH. Intersecting epidemics and educable moments: sexually transmitted disease risk assessment and screening in men who have sex with men. Sex Transm Dis 2001;28:464–7.</p>

  <p>104. Kent CK, Chaw JK, Wong W, et al. Prevalence of rectal, urethral, and pharyngeal chlamydia and gonorrhea detected in 2 clinical settings among men who have sex with men: San Francisco, California, 2003. Clin Infect Dis 2005;41:67–74.</p>

  <p>105. Millett GA, Peterson JL, Wolitski RJ, et al. Greater risk for HIV infection&nbsp;of black men who have sex with men: a critical literature review. Am J Public Health 2006;96:1007–19.</p>

  <p>106. Klausner JD, Wong W. Sexually transmitted diseases in men who have sex with men: a clinical review. Curr Infect Dis Rep 2003;5:135–44.</p>

  <p>107. Golden MR, Stekler J, Hughes JP, et al. HIV serosorting in men who have sex with men: is it safe? J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 2008;49:212–8.</p>

  <p>108. CDC. Recommendations for identification and public health management&nbsp;of persons with chronic hepatitis B virus infection. MMWR 2008;57(No. RR-8).</p>

  <p>109. Goodenow C, Szalacha LA, Robin LE, et al. Dimensions of sexual orientation and HIV-related risk among adolescent females: evidence from a statewide survey. Am J Public Health 2008;98:1051–8.</p>

  <p>110. Eisenberg M. Differences in sexual risk behaviors between college students with same-sex and opposite-sex experience: results from a national survey. Arch Sex Behav 2001;30:575–89.</p>

  <p>111. Koh AS, Gomez CA, Shade S, et al. Sexual risk factors among self-identified lesbians, bisexual women, and heterosexual women accessing primary care settings. Sex Transm Dis 2005;32:563–9.</p>

  <p>112. Lindley L, Barnett TL, Brandt HM, et al. STDs among sexually active college students: does sexual orientation make a difference? Perspect Sex Reprod Health 2008;40(4):212–17.</p>

  <p>113. Fethers K, Marks C, Mindel A, et al. Sexually transmitted infections and risk behaviours in women who have sex with women. Sex Transm Infect 2000;76:345–9.</p>

  <p>114. Marrazzo JM, Koutsky LA, Eschenbach DA, et al. Characterization of vaginal flora and bacterial vaginosis in women who have sex with women. J Infect Dis 2002;185:1307–13.</p>

  <p>115. Kellock D, O’Mahony CP. Sexually acquired metronidazole-resistant trichomoniasis in a lesbian couple. Genitourin Med. 1996;72:60–61.</p>

  <p>116. Kwakwa HA, Ghobrial MW. Female-to-Female Transmission of Human Immunodeficiency Virus. Clin Infect Dis. 2003;36:e40–e41.</p>

  <p>117. Berger BJ, Kolton S, Zenilman JM, Cummings MC, Feldman J, McCormack WM. Bacterial vaginosis in lesbians: a sexually transmitted disease. Clin Infect Dis. Dec 1995;21:1402–1405.</p>

  <p>118. Marrazzo JM, Koutsky LA, Kiviat NB, et al. Papanicolaou test screening and prevalence of genital human papillomavirus among women who have sex with women. Am J Public Health 2001;91:947–52.</p>

  <p>119. Diamant AL, Schuster MA, McGuigan K, et al. Lesbians’ sexual history with men: implications for taking a sexual history. Arch Intern Med 1999;159:2730–6.</p>

  <p>120. Marrazzo JM, Stine K, Wald A. Prevalence and risk factors for infection with herpes simplex virus type-1 and -2 among lesbians. Sex Transm Dis 2003;30:890–5.</p>

  <p>121. Singh D, Fine D, Marrazzo JM. Chlamydia trachomatis infection among women reporting sexual activity with women screened in family planning clinics in the Pacific Northwest, 1997 to 2005. Am J Public Health 2010; Aug 19[epub].</p>

  <p>122. Marrazzo JM, Antonio M, Agnew K, et al. Distribution of genital Lactobacillus strains shared by female sex partners. J Infect Dis 2009;199:680–3.</p>

  <p>123. Smit C, Geskus R, Walker S, et al. Effective therapy has altered the spectrum of cause-specific mortality following HIV seroconversion. AIDS 2006;20:741–9.</p>

  <p>124. Hollingsworth TD, Anderson RM, Fraser C. HIV-1 transmission, by stage of infection. J Infect Dis 2008;198:687–3.</p>

  <p>125. Wawer MJ, Gray RH, Sewankambo NK, et al. Rates of HIV-1 transmission&nbsp;per coital act, by stage of HIV-1 infection, in Rakai, Uganda. J Infect Dis 2005;191:1403–9.</p>

  <p>126. Pilcher CD, Tien HC, Eron JJ Jr., et al. Brief but efficient: acute HIV infection and the sexual transmission of HIV. J Infect Dis 2004;189:1785–92.</p>

  <p>127. CDC. HIV/AIDS Surveillance Report, 2008. Vol. 20. Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; 2010. Available at http://www.cdc.gov/hiv/topics/surveillance/resources/reports/.</p>

  <p>128. CDC. Persons tested for HIV—United States, 2006. MMWR 2008;57:845–9.</p>

  <p>129. DHHS. Guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in HIV-infected adults and adolescents. Washington, DC: US Department of Health and Human Services; 2010. Available at http://AIDSinfo.nih.gov.</p>

  <p>130. CDC. Guidelines for prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections in HIV-infected adults and adolescents. MMWR 2009;58(No. RR-4).</p>

  <p>131. Aberg JA, Kaplan JE, Libman H, et al. Primary care guidelines for the management of persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus: 2009 update by the HIV medicine Association of the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis 2009;49:651–81.</p>

  <p>132. CDC. Protocols for the confirmation of reactive rapid HIV tests. MMWR 2004;53:221–2.</p>

  <p>133. Pilcher CD, Eron JJ Jr., Vemazza PL, et al. Sexual transmission during the incubation period of primary HIV infection. JAMA 2001;286:1713–4.</p>

  <p>134. Marks G, Crepaz N, Senterfitt JW, et al. Meta-analysis of high-risk sexual behavior in persons aware and unaware they are infected with HIV in the United States: implications for HIV prevention programs. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 2005;39:446–53.</p>

  <p>135. Myers JJ, Shade SB, Rose CD, et al. Interventions delivered in clinical&nbsp;settings are effective in reducing risk of HIV transmission among people living with HIV: results from the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA)‘s Special Projects of National Significance Initiative. AIDS Behav 2010;14:483–92.</p>

  <p>136. CDC. Incorporating HIV prevention into the medical care of persons living with HIV: recommendations of CDC, the Health Resources and Services Administration, the National Institutes of Health, and the HIV Medicine Association of the Infectious Diseases Society of America. MMWR 2003;52(No. RR-12).</p>

  <p>137. CDC. Recommendations for partner services programs for HIV infection, syphilis, gonorrhea, and chlamydial infection. MMWR 2008;57(No. RR-9).</p>

  <p>138. Panel on Treatment of HIV-Infected Pregnant Women and Prevention of Perinatal Transmission. Recommendations for use of antiretroviral drugs in pregnant HIV-1-infected women for maternal health and interventions to reduce perinatal HIV transmission in the United States. 2010. Available at www.aidsinfo.nih.gov.</p>

  <p>139. Bulterys M, Weidle PJ, Abrams EJ, et al. Combination antiretroviral&nbsp;therapy in African nursing mothers and drug exposure in their infants: new pharmacokinetic and virologic findings. J Infect Dis 2005;192:709–12.</p>

  <p>140. Public Health Service Task Force. Recommendations for use of antiretroviral drugs in pregnant HIV-1 infected women for maternal health and interventions to reduce perinatal HIV-1 transmission in the United States. Rockville, MD: US Department of Health and Human Services, National Institutes of Health, Health Resources and Services Administration; 2010. Available at http://www.aidsinfo.nih.gov.</p>

  <p>141. Read JS. Diagnosis of HIV-1 infection in children younger than 18 months in the United States. Pediatrics 2007;120:e1547–62.</p>

  <p>142. Working Group on Antiretroviral Therapy and Medical Management of HIV-Infected Children. Guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in pediatric HIV infection. 2009. Available at http://aidsinfo.nih.gov/ContentFiles/PediatricGuidelines.pdf.</p>

  <p>143. CDC. Guidelines for prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections in HIV-exposed and HIV-infected children. MMWR 2009;58(No. RR-11).</p>

  <p>144. Fleming DT, Wasserheit JN. From epidemiological synergy to public health policy and practice: the contribution of other sexually transmitted&nbsp;diseases to sexual transmission of HIV infection. Sex Transm Infect 1999;75:3–17.</p>

  <p>145. Lockett AE, Dance DA, Mabey DC, Drasar BS. Serum free media for the isolation of Haemophilus ducreyi. Lancet 1991; 338:326.</p>

  <p>146. Lewis D. Chancroid: clinical manifestations, diagnosis and management.&nbsp;Sex Transm Infect 2002;79:68.</p>

  <p>147. Xu F, Sternberg MR, Kottiri BJ, et al. Trends in herpes simplex virus type 1 and type 2 seroprevalence in the United States. JAMA 2006;296:964–73.</p>

  <p>148. Ryder N, Jin F, McNulty AM, et al. Increasing role of herpes simplex virus type 1 in first-episode anogenital herpes in heterosexual women and younger men who have sex with men, 1992–2006. Sex Transm Infect 2009;85:416–9.</p>

  <p>149. Roberts CM, Pfister JR, Spear SJ. Increasing proportion of herpes simplex virus type 1 as a cause of genital herpes infection in college students. Sex Transm Dis 2003;30:797–800.</p>

  <p>150. Benedetti J, Corey L, Ashley R. Recurrence rates in genital herpes&nbsp;after symptomatic first-episode infection. Ann Intern Med 1994;121:847–54.</p>

  <p>151. Engelberg R, Carrell D, Krantz E, et al. Natural history of genital herpes simplex virus type 1 infection. Sex Transm Dis 2003;30:174–7.</p>

  <p>152. Scoular A. Using the evidence base on genital herpes: optimising the use of diagnostic tests and information provision. Sex Transm Infect 2002;78:160–5.</p>

  <p>153. Scoular A, Gillespie G, Carman WF. Polymerase chain reaction for diagnosis of genital herpes in a genitourinary medicine clinic. Sex Transm Infect 2002;78:21–5.</p>

  <p>154. Wald A, Huang ML, Carrell D, et al. Polymerase chain reaction for detection of herpes simplex virus (HSV) DNA on mucosal surfaces:&nbsp;comparison with HSV isolation in cell culture. J Infect Dis 2003;188:1345–51.</p>

  <p>155. Ashley R, Cent A, Maggs V, et al. Inability of enzyme immunoassays to discriminate between infections with herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2. Ann Intern Med 1991;115:520–6.</p>

  <p>156. Song B, Dwyer DE, Mindel A. HSV type specific serology in sexual health clinics: use, benefits, and who gets tested. Sex Transm Infect 2004;80:113–7.</p>

  <p>157. Whittington WL, Celum CL, Cent A, et al. Use of a glycoprotein G-based type-specific assay to detect antibodies to herpes simplex virus type 2 among persons attending sexually transmitted disease clinics. Sex Transm Dis 2001;28:99–104.</p>

  <p>158. Zimet GD, Rosenthal SL, Fortenberry JD, et al. Factors predicting the acceptance of herpes simplex virus type 2 antibody testing among adolescents and young adults. Sex Transm Dis 2004;31:665–69.</p>

  <p>159. Morrow R, Friedrich D. Performance of a novel test for IgM and IgG antibodies in subjects with culture-documented genital herpes simplex virus-1 or -2 infection. Clin Microbiol Infect 2006;12:463–9.</p>

  <p>160. Leone PA, Trottier S, Miller JM. Valacyclovir for episodic treatment of genital herpes: a shorter 3-day treatment course compared with 5-day treatment. Clin Infect Dis 2002;34:958–62.</p>

  <p>161. Wald A, Carrell D, Remington M, et al. Two-day regimen of acyclovir for treatment of recurrent genital herpes simplex virus type 2 infection. Clin Infect Dis 2002;34:944–8.</p>

  <p>162. Aoki FY, Tyring S, az-Mitoma F, et al. Single-day, patient-initiated famciclovir therapy for recurrent genital herpes: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Clin Infect Dis 2006;42:8–13.</p>

  <p>163. Chosidow O, Drouault Y, Leconte-Veyriac F, et al. Famciclovir vs. aciclovir in immunocompetent patients with recurrent genital herpes infections: a parallel-groups, randomized, double-blind clinical trial. Br J Dermatol 2001;144:818–24.</p>

  <p>164. Bodsworth NJ, Crooks RJ, Borelli S, et al. Valaciclovir versus aciclovir in patient initiated treatment of recurrent genital herpes: a randomised, double blind clinical trial. International Valaciclovir HSV Study Group. Genitourin Med 1997;73:110–6.</p>

  <p>165. Fife KH, Barbarash RA, Rudolph T, et al. Valaciclovir versus acyclovir in the treatment of first-episode genital herpes infection. Results of an international, multicenter, double-blind, randomized clinical trial. The Valaciclovir International Herpes Simplex Virus Study Group. Sex Transm Dis 1997;24:481–6.</p>

  <p>166. Diaz-Mitoma F, Sibbald RG, Shafran SD, et al. Oral famciclovir for the suppression of recurrent genital herpes: a randomized controlled trial. Collaborative Famciclovir Genital Herpes Research Group. JAMA 1998;280:887–92.</p>

  <p>167. Mertz GJ, Loveless MO, Levin MJ, et al; Collaborative Famciclovir Genital Herpes Research Group. Oral famciclovir for suppression of recurrent genital herpes simplex virus infection in women: a multicenter,&nbsp;double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Arch Intern Med 1997;157:343–49.</p>

  <p>168. Reitano M, Tyring S, Lang W, et al; International Valaciclovir HSV Study Group. Valaciclovir for the suppression of recurrent genital herpes simplex virus infection: a large-scale dose range-finding study. J Infect Dis 1998;178:603–10.</p>

  <p>169. Romanowski B, Marina RB, Roberts JN. Patients‘ preference of valacyclovir once-daily suppressive therapy versus twice-daily episodic therapy for recurrent genital herpes: a randomized study. Sex Transm Dis 2003;30:226–231.</p>

  <p>170. Corey L, Wald A, Patel R, et al. Once-daily valacyclovir to reduce the risk of transmission of genital herpes. N Engl J Med 2004;350:11–20.</p>

  <p>171. Goldberg LH, Kaufman R, Kurtz TO, et al; Acyclovir Study Group. Long-term suppression of recurrent genital herpes with acyclovir: a 5-year benchmark. Arch Dermatol 1993;129:582–7.</p>

  <p>172. Fife KH, Crumpacker CS, Mertz GJ, et al; Acyclovir Study Group. Recurrence and resistance patterns of herpes simplex virus following cessation of ≥6 years of chronic suppression with acyclovir. J Infect Dis 1994;169:1338–41.</p>

  <p>173. Wald A, Selke S, Warren T, et al. Comparative efficacy of famciclovir and valacyclovir for suppression of recurrent genital herpes and viral shedding. Sex Transm Dis 2006;33:529–33.</p>

  <p>174. Gilbert LK, Wyand F. Genital herpes education and counseling: testing a one-page‚ FAQ intervention. Herpes 2009;15:51–6.</p>

  <p>175. Rosenthal SL, Zimet GD, Leichliter JS, et al. The psychosocial impact of serological diagnosis of asymptomatic herpes simplex virus type 2 infection. Sex Transm Infect 2006;82:154–7.</p>

  <p>176. Miyai T, Turner KR, Kent CK, et al. The psychosocial impact of testing individuals with no history of genital herpes for herpes simplex virus type 2. Sex Transm Dis 2004;31:517–21.</p>

  <p>177. Watson-Jones D, Weiss HA, Rusizoka M, et al. Effect of herpes simplex suppression on incidence of HIV among women in Tanzania. N Engl J Med 2008;358:1560–71.</p>

  <p>178. Celum C, Wald A, Hughes J, et al. Effect of aciclovir on HIV-1 acquisition&nbsp;in herpes simplex virus 2 seropositive women and men who have sex with men: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2008;371(9630):2109–19.</p>

  <p>179. Henry RE, Wegmann JA, Hartle JE, et al. Successful oral acyclovir desensitization. Ann Allergy 1993;70:386–8.</p>

  <p>180. Posavad CM, Wald A, Kuntz S, et al. Frequent reactivation of herpes simplex virus among HIV-1-infected patients treated with highly active antiretroviral therapy. J Infect Dis 2004;190:693–6.</p>

  <p>181. Conant MA, Schacker TW, Murphy RL, et al. Valaciclovir versus aciclovir</p>

  <p>for herpes simplex virus infection in HIV-infected individuals: two randomized trials. Int J STD AIDS 2002;13:12–21.</p>

  <p>182. Romanowski B, Aoki FY, Martel AY, et al. Efficacy and safety of famciclovir for treating mucocutaneous herpes simplex infection in HIV-infected individuals. Collaborative Famciclovir HIV Study Group. AIDS 2000;14:1211–7.</p>

  <p>183. DeJesus E, Wald A, Warren T, et al. Valacyclovir for the suppression of recurrent genital herpes in human immunodeficiency virus-infected subjects. J Infect Dis 2003;188:1009–16.</p>

  <p>184. Reyes M, Shaik NS, Graber JM, et al. Acyclovir-resistant genital herpes&nbsp;among persons attending sexually transmitted disease and human immunodeficiency virus clinics. Arch Intern Med 2003;163:76–80.</p>

  <p>185. Erard V, Wald A, Corey L, et al. Use of long-term suppressive acyclovir after hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation: impact on herpes simplex&nbsp;virus (HSV) disease and drug-resistant HSV disease. J Infect Dis 2007;196:266–70.</p>

  <p>186. Brown ZA, Selke S, Zeh, et al. Acquisition of herpes simplex virus during pregnancy. N Engl J Med 1997;337:509–15.</p>

  <p>187. Brown ZA, Wald A, Morrow RA, et al. Effect of serologic status and cesarean delivery on transmission rates of herpes simplex virus from mother to infant. JAMA 2003;289:203–9.</p>

  <p>188. Stone KM, Reiff-Eldridge R, White AD, et al. Pregnancy outcomes following systemic prenatal acyclovir exposure: conclusions from the international acyclovir pregnancy registry, 1984–1999. Birth Defects Res A Clin Mol Teratol 2004;70:201–7</p>

  <p>189. Sheffield JS, Hollier LM, Hill JB, et al. Acyclovir prophylaxis to prevent herpes simplex virus recurrence at delivery: a systematic review. Obstet Gynecol 2003;102:1396–1403.</p>

  <p>190. Watts DH, Brown ZA, Money D, et al. A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of acyclovir in late pregnancy for the reduction of herpes simplex virus shedding and cesarean delivery. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2003;188:836–43.</p>

  <p>191. Scott LL, Hollier LM, McIntire D, et al. Acyclovir suppression to prevent recurrent genital herpes at delivery. Infect Dis Obstet Gynecol 2002;10:71–7.</p>

  <p>192. O‘Farrell N. Donovanosis. Sex Transm Infect 2002;78:452–7.</p>

  <p>193. Bowden FJ. Donovanosis in Australia: going, going. Sex Transm Infect 2005;81:365–6.</p>

  <p>194. Mabey D, Peeling RW. Lymphogranuloma venereum. Sex Transm Infect 2002;78:90–2.</p>

  <p>195. Nieuwenhuis RF, Ossewaarde JM, Gotz HM, et al. Resurgence of lymphogranuloma venereum in Western Europe: an outbreak of Chlamydia trachomatis serovar l2 proctitis in the Netherlands among men who have sex with men. Clin Infect Dis 2004;39:996–1003.</p>

  <p>196. Ward H, Martin I, Macdonald N, et al. Lymphogranuloma venereum in the United Kingdom. Clin Infect Dis 2007;44:26–32.</p>

  <p>197. CDC. Guidelines for the laboratory diagnosis of gonorrhea, chlamydia and syphilis. Available at http://www.aphl.org/aphlprograms/infectious/std/Pages/stdtestingguidelines.aspx.</p>

  <p>198. Nandwani R, Evans DT. Are you sure it’s syphilis? A review of false positive serology. Int J STD AIDS 1995;6:241–8.</p>

  <p>199. Association of Public Health Laboratories (APHL). Laboratory Diagnostic Testing for Treponema pallidum. Expert Consultation Meeting Summary Report, January 13–15, 2009, Atlanta, GA. Available at http://www.aphl.org/aphlprograms/infectious/std/Documents/LaboratoryGuidelinesTreponemapallidumMeetingReport.pdf.</p>

  <p>200. Romanowski B, Sutherland R, Fick GH, et al. Serologic response to treatment of infectious syphilis. Ann Intern Med 1991;114:1005–9.</p>

  <p>201. CDC. Syphilis testing algorithms using treponemal tests for initial screening–four laboratories, New York City, 2005–2006. MMWR 2008;57:872–5.</p>

  <p>202. Pope V. Use of treponemal tests to screen for syphilis. Infect Med 2004;21:399–402.</p>

  <p>203. Lukehart SA, Hook EW, III, Baker-Zander SA, et al. Invasion of the central nervous system by Treponema pallidum: implications for diagnosis&nbsp;and treatment. Ann Intern Med 1988;109:855–62.</p>

  <p>204. Marra CM, Maxwell CL, Smith SL, et al. Cerebrospinal fluid abnormalities&nbsp;in patients with syphilis: association with clinical and laboratory features. J Infect Dis 2004;189:369–76.</p>

  <p>205. Jaffe HW, Larsen SA, Peters M, et al. Tests for treponemal antibody in CSF. Arch Intern Med 1978;138:252–5.</p>

  <p>206. CDC. Inadvertent use of Bicillin® C-R to treat syphilis infection — Los Angeles, California, 1999–2004. MMWR 2005;54:217–9.</p>

  <p>207. Ghanem KG, Erbelding EJ, Wiener ZS, et al. Serological response to syphilis treatment in HIV-positive and HIV-negative patients attending sexually transmitted diseases clinics. Sex Transm Infect 2007;83:97–101.</p>

  <p>208. Rolfs RT, Joesoef MR, Hendershot EF, et al; The Syphilis and HIV Study Group. A randomized trial of enhanced therapy for early syphilis in patients with and without human immunodeficiency virus infection. N Engl J Med 1997;337:307–14.</p>

  <p>209. Ghanem KG, Erbelding EJ, Cheng WW, et al. Doxycycline compared with benzathine penicillin for the treatment of early syphilis. Clin Infect Dis 2006;42:e45–9.</p>

  <p>210. Wong T, Singh AE, De P. Primary syphilis: serological treatment response to doxycycline/tetracycline versus benzathine penicillin. Am J Med 2008;121:903–8.</p>

  <p>211. Hook EW, III, Roddy RE, Handsfield HH. Ceftriaxone therapy for incubating and early syphilis. J Infect Dis 1988;158:881–4.</p>

  <p>212. Riedner G, Rusizoka M, Todd J, et al. Single-dose azithromycin versus penicillin G benzathine for the treatment of early syphilis. N Engl J Med 2005;353:1236–44.</p>

  <p>213. Hook EW, III, Martin DH, Stephens J, et al. A randomized, comparative&nbsp;pilot study of azithromycin versus benzathine penicillin G for treatment of early syphilis. Sex Transm Dis 2002;29:486–90.</p>

  <p>214. Hook EW, III, Behets F, Van DK, et al. A phase III equivalence trial of azithromycin versus benzathine penicillin for treatment of early syphilis. J Infect Dis 2010;201:1729–35.</p>

  <p>215. Lukehart SA, Godornes C, Molini BJ, et al. Macrolide resistance in Treponema pallidum in the United States and Ireland. N Engl J Med 2004;351:154–8.</p>

  <p>216. Mitchell SJ, Engelman J, Kent CK, et al. Azithromycin-resistant syphilis infection: San Francisco, California, 2000–2004. Clin Infect Dis 2006;42:337–45.</p>

  <p>217. Su JR, Hook E, Kenney K, et al. Prevalence of the 23S rRNA point mutation in Treponema pallidum in the United States and Associated Factors, 2006–2008. 18th International Society for Sexually Transmitted Diseases Research, #OS1.11.03. London, England: June 2009.</p>

  <p>218. Marra CM, Boutin P, McArthur JC, et al. A pilot study evaluating ceftriaxone and penicillin G as treatment agents for neurosyphilis in human immunodeficiency virus-infected individuals. Clin Infect Dis 2000;30:540–4.</p>

  <p>219. Marra CM, Maxwell CL, Tantalo L, et al. Normalization of cerebrospinal&nbsp;fluid abnormalities after neurosyphilis therapy: does HIV status matter? Clin Infect Dis 2004;38:1001–6.</p>

  <p>220. Marra CM, Maxwell CL, Tantalo LC, et al. Normalization of serum rapid plasma reagin titer predicts normalization of cerebrospinal fluid and clinical abnormalities after treatment of neurosyphilis. Clin Infect Dis 2008;47:893–9.</p>

  <p>221. Hook EW, III, Baker-Zander SA, Moskovitz BL, et al. Ceftriaxone therapy for asymptomatic neurosyphilis. Case report and Western blot analysis of serum and cerebrospinal fluid IgG response to therapy. Sex Transm Dis 1986;13(3 Suppl):S185–8.</p>

  <p>222. Shann S, Wilson J. Treatment of neurosyphilis with ceftriaxone. Sex Transm Infect 2003;79:415–6.</p>

  <p>223. Kingston AA, Vujevich J, Shapiro M, et al. Seronegative secondary syphilis in 2 patients coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus. Arch Dermatol 2005;141:431–3.</p>

  <p>224. CDC. Symptomatic early neurosyphilis among HIV-positive men who have sex with men: four cities, United States, January 2002–June 2004. MMWR 2007;56:625–8.</p>

  <p>225. Libois A, De WS, Poll B, et al. HIV and syphilis: when to perform a lumbar puncture. Sex Transm Dis 2007;34:141–4.</p>

  <p>226. Ghanem KG. Sensitivity and specificity of lumbar puncture in HIV-infected patients with syphilis and no neurologic symptoms reply. Clin Infect Dis 2009;49:162–3.</p>

  <p>227. Ghanem KG, Moore RD, Rompalo AM, et al. Neurosyphilis in a clinical cohort of HIV-1-infected patients. AIDS 2008;22:1145–51.</p>

  <p>228. Ghanem KG, Moore RD, Rompalo AM, et al. Antiretroviral therapy is associated with reduced serologic failure rates for syphilis among</p>

  <p>229. Dowell ME, Ross PG, Musher DM, et al. Response of latent syphilis or neurosyphilis to ceftriaxone therapy in persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus. Am J Med 1992;93:481–8.</p>

  <p>230. Smith NH, Musher DM, Huang DB, et al. Response of HIV-infected patients with asymptomatic syphilis to intensive intramuscular therapy with ceftriaxone or procaine penicillin. Int J STD AIDS 2004;15:328–32.</p>

  <p>231. Hollier LM, Harstad TW, Sanchez PJ, et al. Fetal syphilis: clinical and laboratory characteristics. Obstet Gynecol 2001;97:947–53.</p>

  <p>232. World Health Organization. The global elimination of congenital syphilis: rationale and strategy for action. Geneva: WHO Department of Reproductive Health and Research; 2005.</p>

  <p>233. Alexander JM, Sheffield JS, Sanchez PJ, et al. Efficacy of treatment for syphilis in pregnancy. Obstet Gynecol 1999;93:5–8.</p>

  <p>234. Walker GJ. Antibiotics for syphilis diagnosed during pregnancy. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2001;CD001143.</p>

  <p>235. Wendel GD, Jr., Sheffield JS, Hollier LM, et al. Treatment of syphilis in pregnancy and prevention of congenital syphilis. Clin Infect Dis 2002;35(Suppl 2):S200–9.</p>

  <p>236. Klein VR, Cox SM, Mitchell MD, et al. The Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction complicating syphilotherapy in pregnancy. Obstet Gynecol 1990;75(3 Pt 1):375–80.</p>

  <p>237. Katz KA, Klausner JD. Azithromycin resistance in Treponema pallidum. Curr Opin Infect Dis 2008;21:83–91.</p>

  <p>238. Saxon A, Beall GN, Rohr AS, et al. Immediate hypersensitivity reactions to beta-lactam antibiotics. Ann Intern Med 1987;107:204–15.</p>

  <p>239. Yates AB. Management of patients with a history of allergy to beta-lactam antibiotics. Am J Med 2008;121:572–6.</p>

  <p>240. Manhart LE, Holmes KK, Hughes JP, et al. Mycoplasma genitalium among young adults in the United States: an emerging sexually transmitted&nbsp;infection. Am J Public Health 2007;97:1118–25.</p>

  <p>241. Ross JD, Jensen JS. Mycoplasma genitalium as a sexually transmitted infection: implications for screening, testing, and treatment. Sex Transm Infect 2006;82:269–71.</p>

  <p>242. Taylor-Robinson D, Gilroy CB, Thomas BJ, et al. Mycoplasma genitalium in chronic non-gonococcal urethritis. Int J STD AIDS 2004;15:21–5.</p>

  <p>243. Dupin N, Bijaoui G, Schwarzinger M, et al. Detection and quantification&nbsp;of Mycoplasma genitalium in male patients with urethritis. Clin Infect Dis 2003;37:602–5.&nbsp;</p>

  <p>244. Bradshaw CS, Tabrizi SN, Read TR, et al. Etiologies of nongonococcal&nbsp;urethritis: bacteria, viruses, and the association with orogenital exposure. J Infect Dis 2006;193:336–45.</p>

  <p>245. Madeb R, Nativ O, Benilevi D, et al. Need for diagnostic screening of herpes simplex virus in patients with nongonococcal urethritis. Clin Infect Dis 2000;30:982–3.</p>

  <p>246. Martin DH. Nongonococcal urethritis: new views through the prism of modern molecular microbiology. Curr Infect Dis Rep 2008;10:128–32.</p>

  <p>247. Schwebke JR, Hook EW, III. High rates of Trichomonas vaginalis among men attending a sexually transmitted diseases clinic: implications for screening and urethritis management. J Infect Dis 2003;188:465–8.</p>

  <p>248. Geisler WM, Yu S, Hook EW, III. Chlamydial and gonococcal infection&nbsp;in men without polymorphonuclear leukocytes on gram stain: implications for diagnostic approach and management. Sex Transm Dis 2005;32:630–4.</p>

  <p>249. Falk L, Fredlund H, Jensen JS. Tetracycline treatment does not eradicate Mycoplasma genitalium. Sex Transm Infect 2003;79:318–9.</p>

  <p>250. Mena LA, Mroczkowski TF, Nsuami M, et al. A randomized comparison of azithromycin and doxycycline for the treatment of Mycoplasma genitalium-positive urethritis in men. Clin Infect Dis 2009;48:1649–54.</p>

  <p>251. Fung M, Scott KC, Kent CK, et al. Chlamydial and gonococcal reinfection&nbsp;among men: a systematic review of data to evaluate the need for retesting. Sex Transm Infect 2007;83:304–9.</p>

  <p>252. Kissinger PJ, Reilly K, Taylor SN, et al. Early repeat Chlamydia trachomatis&nbsp;and Neisseria gonorrhoeae infections among heterosexual men. Sex Transm Dis 2009;36:498–500.</p>

  <p>253. Jernberg E, Moghaddam A, Moi H. Azithromycin and moxifloxacin for microbiological cure of Mycoplasma genitalium infection: an open study. Int J STD AIDS 2008;19:676–9.</p>

  <p>254. Bradshaw CS, Chen MY, Fairley CK. Persistence of Mycoplasma genitalium&nbsp;following azithromycin therapy. PLoS One 2008;3:e3618.</p>

  <p>255. Meares EM, Stamey TA. Bacteriologic localization patterns in bacterial prostatitis and urethritis. Invest Urol 1968;5:492–518.</p>

  <p>256. Nickel JC, Alexander RB, Schaeffer AJ, et al. Leukocytes and bacteria in men with chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome compared to asymptomatic controls. J Urol 2003;170:818–22.</p>

  <p>257. Lusk MJ, Konecny P. Cervicitis: a review. Curr Opin Infect Dis 2008;21:49–55.</p>

  <p>258. Marrazzo JM, Martin DH. Management of women with cervicitis. Clin Infect Dis 2007;44 (Suppl 3):S102–10.</p>

  <p>259. Korte JE, Baseman JB, Cagle MP, et al. Cervicitis and genitourinary symptoms in women culture positive for Mycoplasma genitalium. Am J Reprod Immunol 2006;55:265–75.</p>

  <p>260. Gaydos C, Maldeis NE, Hardick A, et al. Mycoplasma genitalium as a contributor to the multiple etiologies of cervicitis in women attending sexually transmitted disease clinics. Sex Transm Dis 2009;36:598–606.</p>

  <p>261. Schwebke JR, Weiss HL. Interrelationships of bacterial vaginosis and cervical inflammation. Sex Transm Dis 2002;29:59–64.</p>

  <p>262. Marrazzo JM, Wiesenfeld HC, Murray PJ, et al. Risk factors for cervicitis among women with bacterial vaginosis. J Infect Dis 2006;193:617–24.</p>

  <p>263. Haggerty CL, Totten PA, Astete SG, et al. Mycoplasma genitalium among women with nongonococcal, nonchlamydial pelvic inflammatory&nbsp;disease. Infect Dis Obstet Gynecol 2006; Article ID 30184:1–5.</p>

  <p>264. Steinhandler L, Peipert JF, Heber W, et al. Combination of bacterial vaginosis and leukorrhea as a predictor of cervical chlamydial or gonococcal&nbsp;infection. Obstet Gynecol 2002;99:603–7.</p>

  <p>265. Geisler WM, Yu S, Venglarik M, et al. Vaginal leucocyte counts in women with bacterial vaginosis: relation to vaginal and cervical infections.&nbsp;Sex Transm Infect 2004;80:401–5.</p>

  <p>266. Manhart LE. Has the time come to systematically test for Mycoplasma genitalium? Sex Transm Dis 2009;36:607–8.</p>

  <p>267. Hosenfeld CB, Workowski KA, Berman S, et al. Repeat infection with chlamydia and gonorrhea among females: a systematic review of the literature. Sex Transm Dis 2009;36:478–89.</p>

  <p>268. Coleman JS, Hitti J, Bukusi EA, et al. Infectious correlates of HIV-1 shedding in the female upper and lower genital tracts. AIDS 2007;21:755–9.</p>

  <p>269. Johnson LF, Lewis DA. The effect of genital tract infections on HIV-1 shedding in the genital tract: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Sex Transm Dis 2008;35:946–59.</p>

  <p>270. Mcclelland RS, Wang CC, Mandaliya K, et al. Treatment of cervicitis&nbsp;is associated with decreased cervical shedding of HIV-1. AIDS 2001;15:105–10.</p>

  <p>271. Meyers DS, Halvorson H, Luckhaupt S. Screening for chlamydial infection: an evidence update for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Ann Intern Med 2007;147:135–42.</p>

  <p>272. Scholes D, Stergachis A, Heidrich FE, et al. Prevention of pelvic inflammatory&nbsp;disease by screening for cervical chlamydial infection. N Engl J Med 1996;334:1362–6.</p>

  <p>273. Kamwendo F, Forslin L, Bodin L, et al. Decreasing incidences of gonorrhea-and chlamydia-associated acute pelvic inflammatory disease: a 25-year study from an urban area of central Sweden. Sex Transm Dis 1996;23:384–91.</p>

  <p>274. Gift TL, Blake DR, Gaydos CA, et al. The cost-effectiveness of screening men for Chlamydia trachomatis: a review of the literature. Sex Transm Dis 2008;35(11 Suppl):S51–60.</p>

  <p>275. Gift TL, Gaydos CA, Kent CK, et al. The program cost and cost-effectiveness&nbsp;of screening men for chlamydia to prevent pelvic inflammatory disease in women. Sex Transm Dis 2008;35(11 Suppl):S66–75.</p>

  <p>276. Schachter J, Chernesky MA, Willis DE, et al. Vaginal swabs are the specimens of choice when screening for Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae: results from a multicenter evaluation of the APTIMA assays for both infections. Sex Transm Dis 2005;32:725–8.</p>

  <p>277. Doshi JS, Power J, Allen E. Acceptability of chlamydia screening using self-taken vaginal swabs. Int J STD AIDS 2008;19:507–9.</p>

  <p>278. Schachter J, Moncada J, Liska S, et al. Nucleic acid amplification tests in the diagnosis of chlamydial and gonococcal infections of the oropharynx and rectum in men who have sex with men. Sex Transm Dis 2008;35:637–42.</p>

  <p>279. Mimiaga MJ, Mayer KH, Reisner SL, et al. Asymptomatic gonorrhea and chlamydial infections detected by nucleic acid amplification tests among Boston area men who have sex with men. Sex Transm Dis 2008;35:495–8.</p>

  <p>280. Bachmann LH, Johnson RE, Cheng H, et al. Nucleic acid amplification tests for diagnosis of Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis rectal infections. J Clin Microbiol 2010;48:1827–32.</p>

  <p>281. Bachmann LH, Johnson RE, Cheng H, et al. Nucleic acid amplification tests for diagnosis of Neisseria gonorrhoeae oropharyngeal infections. J Clin Microbiol 2009;47:902–7.</p>

  <p>282. Chernesky M, Freund GG, Hook E, III, et al. Detection of Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae infections in North American women by testing SurePath liquid-based Pap specimens in APTIMA assays. J Clin Microbiol 2007;45:2434–8.</p>

  <p>283. Geisler WM, Wang C, Morrison SG, et al. The natural history&nbsp;of untreated Chlamydia trachomatis infection in the interval between screening and returning for treatment. Sex Transm Dis 2008;35:119–23.</p>

  <p>284. Lau CY, Qureshi AK. Azithromycin versus doxycycline for genital chlamydial infections: a meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials. Sex Transm Dis 2002;29:497–502.</p>

  <p>285. Bernstein KT, Stephens SC, Barry PM, et al. Chlamydia trachomatis&nbsp;and Neisseria gonorrhoeae transmission from the oropharynx to the urethra among men who have sex with men. Clin Infect Dis 2009;49:1793–7.</p>

  <p>286. Dunne EF, Chapin JB, Rietmeijer CA, et al. Rate and predictors of repeat Chlamydia trachomatis infection among men. Sex Transm Dis 2008;35(11 Suppl):S40–4.</p>

  <p>287. Kjaer HO, Dimcevski G, Hoff G, et al. Recurrence of urogenital Chlamydia trachomatis infection evaluated by mailed samples obtained at home: 24 weeks’ prospective follow up study. Sex Transm Infect 2000;76:169–72.</p>

  <p>288. Whittington WL, Kent C, Kissinger P, et al. Determinants of persistent and recurrent Chlamydia trachomatis infection in young women: results of a multicenter cohort study. Sex Transm Dis 2001;28:117–123.</p>

  <p>289. Jacobson GF, Autry AM, Kirby RS, et al. A randomized controlled trial comparing amoxicillin and azithromycin for the treatment of Chlamydia trachomatis in pregnancy. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2001;184:1352–4.</p>

  <p>290. Kacmar J, Cheh E, Montagno A, et al. A randomized trial of azithromycin&nbsp;versus amoxicillin for the treatment of Chlamydia trachomatis in pregnancy. Infect Dis Obstet Gynecol 2001;9:197–202.</p>

  <p>291. Rahangdale L, Guerry S, Bauer HM, et al. An observational cohort study of Chlamydia trachomatis treatment in pregnancy. Sex Transm Dis 2006;33:106–110.</p>

  <p>292. Hammerschlag MR, Gelling M, Roblin PM, et al. Treatment of neonatal&nbsp;chlamydial conjunctivitis with azithromycin. Pediatr Infect Dis J 1998;17:1049–50.</p>

  <p>293. Weinstock H, Berman S, Cates W, Jr. Sexually transmitted diseases among American youth: incidence and prevalence estimates, 2000. Perspect Sex Reprod Health 2004;36:6–10.</p>

  <p>294. Lyss SB, Kamb ML, Peterman TA, et al. Chlamydia trachomatis among patients infected with and treated for Neisseria gonorrhoeae in sexually&nbsp;transmitted disease clinics in the United States. Ann Intern Med 2003;139:178–85.</p>

  <p>295. Sathia L, Ellis B, Phillip S, et al. Pharyngeal gonorrhoea—is dual therapy the way forward? Int J STD AIDS 2007;18:647–8.</p>

  <p>296. Golden M, Kerani R, Shafii T, Whittington W, Holmes K. Does azithromycin co-treatment enhance the efficacy of oral cephalosporins for pharyngeal gonorrhea? Presented at: 18th International Society for STD Research (ISSTDR) Conference, London, UK, June 2009.</p>

  <p>297. Workowski KA, Berman SM, Douglas JM, Jr. Emerging antimicrobial resistance in Neisseria gonorrhoeae: urgent need to strengthen prevention strategies. Ann Intern Med 2008;148:606–13.</p>

  <p>298. Tapsall JW. What management is there for gonorrhea in the postquinolone&nbsp;era? Sex Transm Dis 2006;33:8–10.</p>

  <p>299. CDC. Update to CDC’s sexually transmitted diseases treatment guidelines,&nbsp;2006: fluoroquinolones no longer recommended for treatment of gonococcal infections. MMWR 2007;56:332–6.</p>

  <p>300. Tapsall J, Read P, Carmody C, et al. Two cases of failed ceftriaxone treatment&nbsp;in pharyngeal gonorrhoea verified by molecular microbiological methods. J Med Microbiol 2009;58(Pt 5):683–7.</p>

  <p>301. Lo JY, Ho KM, Leung AO, et al. Ceftibuten resistance and treatment failure of Neisseria gonorrhoeae infection. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2008;52:3564–7.</p>

  <p>302. Deguchi T, Yasuda M, Yokoi S, et al. Treatment of uncomplicated gonococcal urethritis by double-dosing of 200 mg cefixime at a 6-h interval. J Infect Chemother 2003;9:35–9.</p>

  <p>303. Yokoi S, Deguchi T, Ozawa T, et al. Threat to cefixime treatment for gonorrhea. Emerg Infect Dis 2007;13:1275–7.</p>

  <p>304. Muratani T, Akasaka S, Kobayashi T, et al. Outbreak of cefozopran (penicillin, oral cephems, and aztreonam)-resistant Neisseria gonorrhoeae in Japan. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2001;45:3603–6.</p>

  <p>305. Wang SA, Lee MV, O’Connor N, et al. Multidrug-resistant Neisseria gonorrhoeae with decreased susceptibility to cefixime-Hawaii, 2001. Clin Infect Dis 2003;37:84952.</p>

  <p>306. Moran JS, Levine WC. Drugs of choice for the treatment of uncomplicated&nbsp;gonococcal infections. Clin Infect Dis 1995;20 Suppl 1:S47–S65.</p>

  <p>307. Newman LM, Moran JS, Workowski KA. Update on the management of gonorrhea in adults in the United States. Clin Infect Dis 2007;44 Suppl 3:S84–101.</p>

  <p>308. Pandori M, Barry PM, Wu A, et al. Mosaic penicillin-binding protein 2 in Neisseria gonorrhoeae isolates collected in 2008 in San Francisco, California. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2009;53:4032–4.</p>

  <p>309. Ison CA, Mouton JW, Jones K, et al. Which cephalosporin for gonorrhoea?&nbsp;Sex Transm Infect 2004;80:386–8.</p>

  <p>310. CDC. Notice to Readers: Discontinuation of Spectinomycin. MMWR 2006;55:370.</p>

  <p>311. Waters LJ, Boag FC, Betournay R. Efficacy of azithromycin 1 g single dose in the management of uncomplicated gonorrhoea. Int J STD AIDS 2005;16:84.</p>

  <p>312. McLean CA, Wang SA, Hoff GL, et al. The emergence of Neisseria gonorrhoeae with decreased susceptibility to azithromycin in Kansas City, Missouri, 1999 to 2000. Sex Transm Dis 2004;31:73–8.</p>

  <p>313. Chisholm SA, Neal TJ, Alawattegama AB, et al. Emergence of high-level azithromycin resistance in Neisseria gonorrhoeae in England and Wales. J Antimicrob Chemother 2009;64:353–8.</p>

  <p>314. Linhart Y, Shohat T, Amitai Z, et al. Sexually transmitted infections among brothel-based sex workers in Tel-Aviv area, Israel: high prevalence&nbsp;of pharyngeal gonorrhoea. Int J STD AIDS 2008;19:656–9.</p>

  <p>315. Ota KV, Fisman DN, Tamari IE, et al. Incidence and treatment outcomes&nbsp;of pharyngeal Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis infections in men who have sex with men: a 13-year retrospective cohort study. Clin Infect Dis 2009;48:1237–43.</p>

  <p>316. Pichichero ME. A review of evidence supporting the American Academy of Pediatrics recommendation for prescribing cephalosporin antibiotics for penicillin-allergic patients. Pediatrics 2005;115:1048–57.</p>

  <p>317. Haimovici R, Roussel TJ. Treatment of gonococcal conjunctivitis with single-dose intramuscular ceftriaxone. Am J Ophthalmol 1989;107:511–4.</p>

  <p>318. Koumans EH, Sternberg M, Bruce C, et al. The prevalence of bacterial&nbsp;vaginosis in the United States, 2001–2004: associations with symptoms, sexual behaviors, and reproductive health. Sex Transm Dis 2007;34:864–9.</p>

  <p>319. Amsel R, Totten PA, Spiegel CA, et al. Nonspecific vaginitis. Diagnostic criteria and microbial and epidemiologic associations. Am J Med 1983;74:14–22.</p>

  <p>320. Schwebke JR, Hillier SL, Sobel JD, et al. Validity of the vaginal gram stain for the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis. Obstet Gynecol 1996;88(4 Pt 1):573–6.</p>

  <p>321. Fredricks DN, Fiedler TL, Thomas KK, et al. Targeted PCR for detection of vaginal bacteria associated with bacterial vaginosis. J Clin Microbiol 2007;45:3270–6.</p>

  <p>322. Schwebke JR, Desmond R. A randomized trial of metronidazole in asymptomatic bacterial vaginosis to prevent the acquisition of sexually transmitted diseases. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2007;196:517–6.</p>

  <p>323. Livengood CH, III, Ferris DG, Wiesenfeld HC, et al. Effectiveness of two tinidazole regimens in treatment of bacterial vaginosis: a randomized&nbsp;controlled trial. Obstet Gynecol 2007;110(2 Pt 1):302–9.</p>

  <p>324. Sobel J, Peipert JF, McGregor JA, et al. Efficacy of clindamycin vaginal ovule (3-day treatment) vs. clindamycin vaginal cream (7-day treatment) in bacterial vaginosis. Infect Dis Obstet Gynecol 2001;9:9–15.</p>

  <p>325. Antonio MA, Meyn LA, Murray PJ, et al. Vaginal colonization by probiotic Lactobacillus crispatus CTV-05 is decreased by sexual activity and endogenous Lactobacilli. J Infect Dis 2009;199:1506–13.</p>

  <p>326. Mastromarino P, Macchia S, Meggiorini L, et al. Effectiveness of Lactobacillus-containing vaginal tablets in the treatment of symptomatic&nbsp;bacterial vaginosis. Clin Microbiol Infect 2009;15:67–74.</p>

  <p>327. Hemmerling A, Harrison W, Schroeder A, et al. Phase 1 dose-ranging safety trial of Lactobacillus crispatus CTV-05 for the prevention of bacterial vaginosis. Sex Transm Dis 2009;36:564–9.</p>

  <p>328. Ferris MJ, Masztal A, Aldridge KE, et al. Association of Atopobium vaginae, a recently described metronidazole resistant anaerobe, with bacterial vaginosis. BMC Infect Dis 2004;4:5.</p>

  <p>329. Bradshaw CS, Tabrizi SN, Fairley CK, et al. The association of Atopobium vaginae and Gardnerella vaginalis with bacterial vaginosis&nbsp;and recurrence after oral metronidazole therapy. J Infect Dis 2006;194:828–36.</p>

  <p>330. Marrazzo JM, Thomas KK, Fiedler TL, et al. Relationship of specific vaginal bacteria and bacterial vaginosis treatment failure in women who have sex with women. Ann Intern Med 2008;149:20–8.</p>

  <p>331. Meltzer MC, Desmond RA, Schwebke JR. Association of Mobiluncus curtisii with recurrence of bacterial vaginosis. Sex Transm Dis 2008;35:611–3.</p>

  <p>332. Beigi RH, Austin MN, Meyn LA, et al. Antimicrobial resistance associated&nbsp;with the treatment of bacterial vaginosis. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2004;191:1124–9.</p>

  <p>333. Nyirjesy P, McIntosh MJ, Steinmetz JI, et al. The effects of intravaginal&nbsp;clindamycin and metronidazole therapy on vaginal mobiluncus morphotypes in patients with bacterial vaginosis. Sex Transm Dis 2007;34:197–202.</p>

  <p>334. Bunge KE, Beigi RH, Meyn LA, et al. The efficacy of retreatment with the same medication for early treatment failure of bacterial vaginosis. Sex Transm Dis 2009;36:711–3.</p>

  <p>335. Sobel JD, Ferris D, Schwebke J, et al. Suppressive antibacterial therapy with 0.75% metronidazole vaginal gel to prevent recurrent bacterial vaginosis. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2006;194:1283–9.</p>

  <p>336. Reichman O, Akins R, Sobel JD. Boric acid addition to suppressive antimicrobial therapy for recurrent bacterial vaginosis. Sex Transm Dis 2009;36:732–4.</p>

  <p>337. Mcclelland RS, Richardson BA, Hassan WM, et al. Improvement of vaginal health for Kenyan women at risk for acquisition of human immunodeficiency virus type 1: results of a randomized trial. J Infect Dis 2008;197:1361–8.</p>

  <p>338. Hauth JC, Goldenberg RL, Andrews WW, et al. Reduced incidence of preterm delivery with metronidazole and erythromycin in women with bacterial vaginosis. N Engl J Med 1995;333:1732–6.</p>

  <p>339. Morales WJ, Schorr S, Albritton J. Effect of metronidazole in patients with preterm birth in preceding pregnancy and bacterial vaginosis: a placebo-controlled, double-blind study. Am J Obstet Gynecol 1994;171:345–7.</p>

  <p>340. Yudin MH, Landers DV, Meyn L, et al. Clinical and cervical cytokine response to treatment with oral or vaginal metronidazole for bacterial&nbsp;vaginosis during pregnancy: a randomized trial. Obstet Gynecol 2003;102:527–34.</p>

  <p>341. Ugwumadu A, Reid F, Hay P, et al. Natural history of bacterial vaginosis and intermediate flora in pregnancy and effect of oral clindamycin. Obstet Gynecol 2004;104:114–9.</p>

  <p>342. Burtin P, Taddio A, Ariburnu O, et al. Safety of metronidazole in pregnancy: a meta-analysis. Am J Obstet Gynecol 1995;172(2 Pt 1):525–9.</p>

  <p>343. Piper JM, Mitchel EF, Ray WA. Prenatal use of metronidazole and birth defects: no association. Obstet Gynecol 1993;82:348–52.</p>

  <p>344. Odendaal HJ, Popov I, Schoeman J, et al. Preterm labour—is bacterial vaginosis involved? S Afr Med J 2002;92:231–4.</p>

  <p>345. Carey JC, Klebanoff MA, Hauth JC, et al. Metronidazole to prevent&nbsp;preterm delivery in pregnant women with asymptomatic bacterial vaginosis. National Institute of Child Health and Human Development Network of Maternal-Fetal Medicine Units. N Engl J Med 2000;342:534–40.</p>

  <p>346. Vermeulen GM, Bruinse HW. Prophylactic administration of clindamycin&nbsp;2% vaginal cream to reduce the incidence of spontaneous preterm birth in women with an increased recurrence risk: a randomised&nbsp;placebo-controlled double-blind trial. Br J Obstet Gynaecol 1999;106:652–7.</p>

  <p>347. McDonald HM, O‘Loughlin JA, Vigneswaran R, et al. Impact of metronidazole&nbsp;therapy on preterm birth in women with bacterial vaginosis flora (Gardnerella vaginalis): a randomised, placebo controlled trial. Br J Obstet Gynaecol 1997;104:1391–7.</p>

  <p>348. Hay P, Ugwumadu AHN, Manyonda IT. Oral clindamycin prevents spontaneous&nbsp;preterm birth and mid trimester miscarriage in pregnant women with bacterial vaginosis. Int J STD AIDS 2001;12(Suppl 2):70–1.</p>

  <p>349. Lamont RF, Duncan SL, Mandal D, et al. Intravaginal clindamycin to reduce preterm birth in women with abnormal genital tract flora. Obstet Gynecol 2003;101:516–22.</p>

  <p>350. McGregor JA, French JI, Jones W, et al. Bacterial vaginosis is associated with prematurity and vaginal fluid mucinase and sialidase: results of a controlled trial of topical clindamycin cream. Am J Obstet Gynecol 1994;170:1048–59.</p>

  <p>351. Joesoef MR, Hillier SL, Wiknjosastro G, et al. Intravaginal clindamycin treatment for bacterial vaginosis: effects on preterm delivery and low birth weight. Am J Obstet Gynecol 1995;173:1527–31.</p>

  <p>352. Jamieson DJ, Duerr A, Klein RS, et al. Longitudinal analysis of bacterial vaginosis: findings from the HIV epidemiology research study. Obstet Gynecol 2001;98:656–63.</p>

  <p>353. Van Der PB, Williams JA, Orr DP, et al. Prevalence, incidence, natural history, and response to treatment of Trichomonas vaginalis infection among adolescent women. J Infect Dis 2005;192:2039–44.</p>

  <p>354. Sutton M, Sternberg M, Koumans EH, et al. The prevalence of Trichomonas vaginalis infection among reproductive-age women in the United States, 2001–2004. Clin Infect Dis 2007;45:1319–26.</p>

  <p>355. Lara-Torre E, Pinkerton JS. Accuracy of detection of Trichomonas vaginalis organisms on a liquid-based papanicolaou smear. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2003;188:354–6.</p>

  <p>356. Van Der PB, Kraft CS, Williams JA. Use of an adaptation of a commercially&nbsp;available PCR assay aimed at diagnosis of chlamydia and gonorrhea to detect Trichomonas vaginalis in urogenital specimens. J Clin Microbiol 2006;44:366–73.</p>

  <p>357. Hardick A, Hardick J, Wood BJ, et al. Comparison between the Gen-Probe transcription-mediated amplification Trichomonas vaginalis research assay and real-time PCR for Trichomonas vaginalis detection using a Roche LightCycler instrument with female self-obtained vaginal swab samples and male urine samples. J Clin Microbiol 2006;44:4197–9.</p>

  <p>358. Huppert JS, Mortensen JE, Reed JL, et al. Rapid antigen testing compares&nbsp;favorably with transcription-mediated amplification assay for the detection of Trichomonas vaginalis in young women. Clin Infect Dis 2007;45:194–8.</p>

  <p>359. Nye MB, Schwebke JR, Body BA. Comparison of APTIMA Trichomonas vaginalis transcription-mediated amplification to wet mount microscopy, culture, and polymerase chain reaction for diagnosis&nbsp;of trichomoniasis in men and women. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2009;200:188–97.</p>

  <p>360. Francis SC, Kent CK, Klausner JD, et al. Prevalence of rectal Trichomonas vaginalis and Mycoplasma genitalium in male patients at the San Francisco STD clinic, 2005–2006. Sex Transm Dis 2008;35:797–800.</p>

  <p>361. Forna F, Gulmezoglu AM. Interventions for treating trichomoniasis in women. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2003;(2):CD000218.</p>

  <p>362. Schmid G, Narcisi E, Mosure D, et al. Prevalence of metronidazole-resistant Trichomonas vaginalis in a gynecology clinic. J Reprod Med 2001;46:545–9.</p>

  <p>363. Schwebke JR, Barrientes FJ. Prevalence of Trichomonas vaginalis isolates with resistance to metronidazole and tinidazole. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2006;50:4209–10.</p>

  <p>364. Pearlman MD, Yashar C, Ernst S, et al. An incremental dosing protocol for women with severe vaginal trichomoniasis and adverse reaction to metronidazole. Am J Obstet Gynecol 1996;174:934–6.</p>

  <p>365. Kurohara ML, Kwong FK, Lebherz TB, et al. Metronidazole hypersensitivity and oral desensitization. J Allergy Clin Immunol 1991;88:279–80.</p>

  <p>366. Helms DJ, Mosure DJ, Secor WE, et al. Management of Trichomonas vaginalis in women with suspected metronidazole hypersensitivity. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2008;198:370–7.</p>

  <p>367. Klebanoff MA, Carey JC, Hauth JC, et al. Failure of metronidazole to prevent preterm delivery among pregnant women with asymptomatic Trichomonas vaginalis infection. N Engl J Med 2001;345:487–93.</p>

  <p>368. Kigozi GG, Brahmbhatt H, Wabwire-Mangen F, et al. Treatment of Trichomonas in pregnancy and adverse outcomes of pregnancy: a subanalysis&nbsp;of a randomized trial in Rakai, Uganda. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2003;189:1398–1400.</p>

  <p>369. Caro-Paton T, Carvajal A, Martin dD, I, et al. Is metronidazole teratogenic?&nbsp;A meta-analysis. Br J Clin Pharmacol 1997;44:179–82.</p>

  <p>370. Van Der PB, Kwok C, Pierre-Louis B, et al. Trichomonas vaginalis infection and human immunodeficiency virus acquisition in African women. J Infect Dis 2008;197:548–54.</p>

  <p>371. Moodley P, Wilkinson D, Connolly C, et al. Influence of HIV-1 coinfection on effective management of abnormal vaginal discharge. Sex Transm Dis 2003;30:1–5.</p>

  <p>372. Moodley P, Wilkinson D, Connolly C, et al. Trichomonas vaginalis is associated with pelvic inflammatory disease in women infected with human immunodeficiency virus. Clin Infect Dis 2002;34:519–22.</p>

  <p>373. McClelland RS, Sangare L, Hassan WM, et al. Infection with Trichomonas vaginalis increases the risk of HIV-1 acquisition. J Infect Dis 2007;195:698–702.</p>

  <p>374. Kissinger P, Secor WE, Leichliter JS, et al. Early repeated infections with Trichomonas vaginalis among HIV-positive and HIV-negative women. Clin Infect Dis 2008;46:994–9.</p>

  <p>375. Kissinger P, Amedee A, Clark RA, et al. Trichomonas vaginalis treatment reduces vaginal HIV-1 shedding. Sex Transm Dis 2009;36:11–6.</p>

  <p>376. Tuomala RE, O‘Driscoll PT, Bremer JW, et al. Cell-associated genital tract virus and vertical transmission of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 in antiretroviral-experienced women. J Infect Dis 2003;187:375–84.</p>

  <p>377. Wang CC, Mcclelland RS, Reilly M, et al. The effect of treatment of vaginal infections on shedding of human immunodeficiency virus type 1. J Infect Dis 2001;183:1017–22.</p>

  <p>378. Niccolai LM, Kopicko JJ, Kassie A, et al. Incidence and predictors of reinfection with Trichomonas vaginalis in HIV-infected women. Sex Transm Dis 2000;27:284–8.</p>

  <p>379. Kissinger P, Mena L, Levison J, et al. A randomized treatment trial: single versus 7-day dose of metronidazole for the treatment of Trichomonas vaginalis among HIV-infected women. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 2010;55:565-71.</p>

  <p>380. Sobel JD, Chaim W, Nagappan V, et al. Treatment of vaginitis caused by Candida glabrata: use of topical boric acid and flucytosine. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2003;189:1297–1300.</p>

  <p>381. Vazquez JA, Peng G, Sobel JD, et al. Evolution of antifungal susceptibility&nbsp;among Candida species isolates recovered from human immunodeficiency&nbsp;virus-infected women receiving fluconazole prophylaxis. Clin Infect Dis 2001;33:1069–75.</p>

  <p>382. Wiesenfeld HC, Sweet RL, Ness RB, et al. Comparison of acute and subclinical&nbsp;pelvic inflammatory disease. Sex Transm Dis 2005;32:400–5.</p>

  <p>383. Ness RB, Kip KE, Hillier SL, et al. A cluster analysis of bacterial vaginosis-associated microflora and pelvic inflammatory disease. Am J Epidemiol 2005;162:585–90.</p>

  <p>384. Cohen CR, Mugo NR, Astete SG, et al. Detection of Mycoplasma genitalium in women with laparoscopically diagnosed acute salpingitis. Sex Transm Infect 2005;81:463–66.</p>

  <p>385. Jurstrand M, Jensen JS, Magnuson A, et al. A serological study of the role of Mycoplasma genitalium in pelvic inflammatory disease and ectopic pregnancy. Sex Transm Infect 2007;83:319–23.</p>

  <p>386. Short VL, Totten PA, Ness RB, et al. Clinical presentation of Mycoplasma genitalium infection versus Neisseria gonorrhoeae infection&nbsp;among women with pelvic inflammatory disease. Clin Infect Dis 2009;48:41–7.</p>

  <p>387. Peipert JF, Ness RB, Blume J, et al. Clinical predictors of endometritis in women with symptoms and signs of pelvic inflammatory disease. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2001;184:856–63.</p>

  <p>388. Gaitan H, Angel E, Diaz R, et al. Accuracy of five different diagnostic techniques in mild-to-moderate pelvic inflammatory disease. Infect Dis Obstet Gynecol 2002;10:171–80.</p>

  <p>389. Haggerty CL, Ness RB, Amortegui A, et al. Endometritis does not predict reproductive morbidity after pelvic inflammatory disease. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2003;188:141–8.</p>

  <p>390. Ness RB, Soper DE, Holley RL, et al. Effectiveness of inpatient and outpatient treatment strategies for women with pelvic inflammatory disease: results from the Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Evaluation and Clinical Health (PEACH) Randomized Trial. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2002;186:929–37.</p>

  <p>391. Ness RB, Hillier SL, Kip KE ea. Bacterial vaginosis and risk of pelvic inflammatory disease. Obstet Gynecol 2004;44 (Supp 3):S111–22.</p>

  <p>392. Smith KJ, Ness RB, Wiesenfeld HC, et al. Cost-effectiveness of alternative&nbsp;outpatient pelvic inflammatory disease treatment strategies. Sex Transm Dis 2007;34:960–6.</p>

  <p>393. Walker CK, Wiesenfeld H. Antibiotic Therapy for Acute Pelvic Inflammatory Disease: The 2006 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines. Clin Infect Dis 2007;28(Supp 1):S29–S36.</p>

  <p>394. McGregor JA, Crombleholme WR, Newton E, et al. Randomized comparison of ampicillin-sulbactam to cefoxitin and doxycycline or clindamycin and gentamicin in the treatment of pelvic inflammatory disease or endometritis. Obstet Gynecol 1994;83:998–1004.</p>

  <p>395. Bevan CD, Ridgway GL, Rothermel CD. Efficacy and safety of azithromycin&nbsp;as monotherapy or combined with metronidazole compared with two standard multidrug regimens for the treatment of acute pelvic inflammatory disease. J Int Med Res 2003;31:45–54.</p>

  <p>396. Savaris RF, Teixeira LM, Torres TG, et al. Comparing ceftriaxone plus azithromycin or doxycycline for pelvic inflammatory disease: a randomized&nbsp;controlled trial. Obstet Gynecol 2007;110:53–60.</p>

  <p>397. Bukusi EA, Cohen CR, Stevens CE, et al. Effects of human immunodeficiency&nbsp;virus 1 infection on microbial origins of pelvic inflammatory disease and on efficacy of ambulatory oral therapy. Am J Obstet Gynecol 1999;181:1374–81.</p>

  <p>398. Irwin KL, Moorman AC, O‘Sullivan MJ, et al. Influence of human immunodeficiency virus infection on pelvic inflammatory disease. Obstet Gynecol 2000;95:525–34.</p>

  <p>399. Mugo NR, Kiehlbauch JA, Nguti R, et al. Effect of human immunodeficiency&nbsp;virus-1 infection on treatment outcome of acute salpingitis. Obstet Gynecol 2006;107:807–12.</p>

  <p>400. Viberga I, Odlind V, Lazdane G, et al. Microbiology profile in women with pelvic inflammatory disease in relation to IUD use. Infect Dis Obstet Gynecol 2005;13:183–90.</p>

  <p>401. Grimes DA. Intrauterine device and upper-genital-tract infection. Lancet 2000;356(9234):1013–19.</p>

  <p>402. Tracy CR, Steers WD, Costabile R. Diagnosis and management of epididymitis. Urol Clin North Am 2008;35:101–8.</p>

  <p>403. Nickel JC, Siemens DR, Nickel KR, et al. The patient with chronic epididymitis: characterization of an enigmatic syndrome. J Urol 2002;167:1701–4.</p>

  <p>404. Cogliano V, Baan R, Straif K, et al. Carcinogenicity of human papillomaviruses.&nbsp;Lancet Oncol 2005;6:204.</p>

  <p>405. Myers ER, McCrory DC, Nanda K, et al. Mathematical model for the natural history of human papillomavirus infection and cervical carcinogenesis. Am J Epidemiol 2000;151:1158–71.</p>

  <p>406. Garland SM, Steben M, Sings HL, et al. Natural history of genital warts: analysis of the placebo arm of 2 randomized phase III trials of a quadrivalent human papillomavirus (types 6, 11, 16, and 18) vaccine. J Infect Dis 2009;199:805–14.</p>

  <p>407. Gotovtseva EP, Kapadia AS, Smolensky MH, et al. Optimal frequency of imiquimod (aldara) 5% cream for the treatment of external genital warts in immunocompetent adults: a meta-analysis. Sex Transm Dis 2008;35:346–51.</p>

  <p>408. Mashiah J, Brenner S. Possible mechanisms in the induction of vitiligo-like hypopigmentation by topical imiquimod. Clin Exp Dermatol 2008;33:74–6.</p>

  <p>409. Tatti S, Swinehart JM, Thielert C, et al. Sinecatechins, a defined green tea extract, in the treatment of external anogenital warts: a randomized controlled trial. Obstet Gynecol 2008;111:1371–9.</p>

  <p>410. Stockfleth E, Beti H, Orasan R, et al. Topical Polyphenon E in the treatment&nbsp;of external genital and perianal warts: a randomized controlled trial. Br J Dermatol 2008;158:1329–38.</p>

  <p>411. Gross G, Meyer KG, Pres H, et al. A randomized, double-blind, four-arm parallel-group, placebo-controlled Phase II/III study to investigate the clinical efficacy of two galenic formulations of Polyphenon E in the treatment of external genital warts. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2007;21:1404–12.</p>

  <p>412. Silverberg MJ, Thorsen P, Lindeberg H, et al. Condyloma in pregnancy is strongly predictive of juvenile-onset recurrent respiratory papillomatosis.&nbsp;Obstet Gynecol 2003;101:645–52.</p>

  <p>413. Dolev JC, Maurer T, Springer G, et al. Incidence and risk factors for verrucae in women. AIDS 2008;22:1213–19.</p>

  <p>414. Silverberg MJ, Ahdieh L, Munoz A, et al. The impact of HIV infection and immunodeficiency on human papillomavirus type 6 or 11 infection and on genital warts. Sex Transm Dis 2002;29:427–35.</p>

  <p>415. De Panfilis G., Melzani G, Mori G, et al. Relapses after treatment of external genital warts are more frequent in HIV-positive patients than in HIV-negative controls. Sex Transm Dis 2002;29:121–5.</p>

  <p>416. Conley LJ, Ellerbrock TV, Bush TJ, et al. HIV-1 infection and risk of vulvovaginal&nbsp;and perianal condylomata acuminata and intraepithelial neoplasia:&nbsp;a prospective cohort study. Lancet 2002;359(9301):108–13.</p>

  <p>417. Chiao EY, Giordano TP, Palefsky JM, et al. Screening HIV-infected individuals for anal cancer precursor lesions: a systematic review. Clin Infect Dis 2006;43:223–33.</p>

  <p>418. Datta SD, Koutsky LA, Ratelle S, et al. Human papillomavirus infection&nbsp;and cervical cytology in women screened for cervical cancer in the United States, 2003–2005. Ann Intern Med 2008;148:493–500.</p>

  <p>419. Selvam N, Barrow R, Shlay J, et al. Should STD clinics participate in cervical cancer screening: (1) Measurement of pap test abnormalities and HPV infection among women attending STD clinics and (2) A survey of cervical cancer screening practices, ISSTDR, Seattle, WA 2007.</p>

  <p>420. Arbyn M, Bergeron C, Klinkhamer P, et al. Liquid compared with conventional cervical cytology: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Obstet Gynecol 2008;111:167–77.</p>

  <p>421. Stoler MH, Castle PE, Solomon D, et al. The expanded use of HPV testing&nbsp;in gynecologic practice per ASCCP-guided management requires the use of well-validated assays. Am J Clin Pathol 2007;127:335–7.</p>

  <p>422. Solomon D, Davey D, Kurman R, et al; Bethesda 2001 Workshop. The 2001 Bethesda System: terminology for reporting results of cervical cytology. JAMA 2002;287:2114–9.</p>

  <p>423. Naucler P, Ryd W, Tornberg S, et al. Human papillomavirus and Papanicolaou tests to screen for cervical cancer. N Engl J Med 2007;357:1589–97.</p>

  <p>424. Wright TC, Jr., Massad LS, Dunton CJ, et al. 2006 consensus guidelines for the management of women with abnormal cervical screening tests. J Low Genit Tract Dis 2007;11:201–22.</p>

  <p>425. Widdice LE, Moscicki AB. Updated guidelines for Papanicolaou tests, colposcopy, and human papillomavirus testing in adolescents. J Adolesc Health 2008;43(4 Suppl):S41–S51.</p>

  <p>426. Solomon D, Schiffman M, Tarone R. Comparison of three management strategies for patients with atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance: baseline results from a randomized trial. J Natl Cancer Inst 2001;93:293–9.</p>

  <p>427. American Society for Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology (ASCCP). HPV Genotyping Clinical Update. Available at: http://www.asccp.org/pdfs/consensus/clinical_update_20090408.pdf.</p>

  <p>428. American Society for Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology (ASCCP) Clinical Update for HPV Genotyping, 2009.</p>

  <p>429. Wright TC, Jr., Massad LS, Dunton CJ, et al. 2006 consensus guidelines for the management of women with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or adenocarcinoma in situ. J Low Genit Tract Dis 2007;11:223–39.</p>

  <p>430. Ronco G, Giorgi-Rossi P, Carozzi F, et al. Results at recruitment from a randomized controlled trial comparing human papillomavirus testing&nbsp;alone with conventional cytology as the primary cervical cancer screening test. J Natl Cancer Inst 2008;100:492–501.</p>

  <p>431. Mayrand MH, Duarte-Franco E, Rodrigues I, et al. Human papillomavirus&nbsp;DNA versus Papanicolaou screening tests for cervical cancer. N Engl J Med 2007;357:1579–88.</p>

  <p>432. Ghanem KG, Koumans EH, Johnson RE, et al. Effect of specimen order on Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae test performance&nbsp;and adequacy of Papanicolaou smear. J Pediatr Adolesc Gynecol 2006;19:23–30.</p>

  <p>433. Saraiya M, Lee NC, Blackman D, et al. Self-reported Papanicolaou smears and hysterectomies among women in the United States. Obstet Gynecol 2001;98:269–78.</p>

  <p>434. Sirovich BE, Welch HG. Cervical cancer screening among women without a cervix. JAMA 2004;291:2990–3.</p>

  <p>435. Stokes-Lampard H, Wilson S, Waddell C, et al. Vaginal vault smears after hysterectomy for reasons other than malignancy: a systematic review of the literature. BJOG 2006;113:1354–65.</p>

  <p>436. Delmas MC, Larsen C, van BB, et al. Cervical squamous intraepithelial lesions in HIV-infected women: prevalence, incidence and regression.&nbsp;European Study Group on Natural History of HIV Infection in Women. AIDS 2000;14:1775–84.</p>

  <p>437. CDC. Surveillance for acute viral hepatitis. MMWR 2008;57(No.SS-2):1-24.</p>

  <p>438. CDC. Update: Prevention of hepatitis A after exposure to hepatitis A virus and in international travelers. Updated recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). MMWR 2007;56:1080–4.</p>

  <p>439. Alter HJ, Purcell RH, Gerin JL, et al. Transmission of hepatitis B to chimpanzees by hepatitis B surface antigen-positive saliva and semen. Infect Immun 1977;16:928–33.</p>

  <p>440. Villarejos VM, Visona KA, Gutierrez A, et al. Role of saliva, urine and feces in the transmission of type B hepatitis. N Engl J Med 1974;291:1375–1378.</p>

  <p>441. Davis LG, Weber DJ, Lemon SM. Horizontal transmission of hepatitis B virus. Lancet 1989;1(8643):889–93.</p>

  <p>442. Martinson FE, Weigle KA, Royce RA, et al. Risk factors for horizontal transmission of hepatitis B virus in a rural district in Ghana. Am J Epidemiol 1998;147:478–87.</p>

  <p>443. CDC. National, state, and urban area vaccination coverage among children aged 19–35 months—United States, 2004. MMWR 2005;54:717–21.</p>

  <p>444. CDC. Hepatitis B vaccination among high-risk adolescents and adults–San Diego, California, 1998–2001. MMWR 2002;51:618–21.</p>

  <p>445. MacKellar DA, Valleroy LA, Secura GM, et al. Two decades after vaccine license: hepatitis B immunization and infection among young men who have sex with men. Am J Public Health 2001;91:965–71.</p>

  <p>446. CDC. Updated U.S. Public Health Service Guidelines for the Management of Occupational Exposures to HBV, HCV, and HIV and Recommendations for Postexposure Prophylaxis. MMWR 2001;50(No. RR-11).</p>

  <p>447. Bohlke K, Davis RL, Marcy SM, et al. Risk of anaphylaxis after vaccination&nbsp;of children and adolescents. Pediatrics 2003;112:815–20.</p>

  <p>448. Minuk GY, Bohme CE, Bowen TJ, et al. Efficacy of commercial condoms&nbsp;in the prevention of hepatitis B virus infection. Gastroenterology 1987;93:710–4.</p>

  <p>449. Armstrong GL, Wasley A, Simard EP, et al. The prevalence of hepatitis C virus infection in the United States, 1999 through 2002. Ann Intern Med 2006;144:705–14.</p>

  <p>450. Brettler DB, Mannucci PM, Gringeri A, et al. The low risk of hepatitis C virus transmission among sexual partners of hepatitis C-infected hemophilic males: an international, multicenter study. Blood 1992;80:540–3.</p>

  <p>451. Kao JH, Hwang YT, Chen PJ, et al. Transmission of hepatitis C virus between spouses: the important role of exposure duration. Am J Gastroenterol 1996;91:2087–90.</p>

  <p>452. Marincovich B, Castilla J, del RJ, et al. Absence of hepatitis C virus transmission in a prospective cohort of heterosexual serodiscordant couples. Sex Transm Infect 2003;79:160–2.</p>

  <p>453. Tahan V, Karaca C, Yildirim B, et al. Sexual transmission of HCV between spouses. Am J Gastroenterol 2005;100:821–4.</p>

  <p>454. Vandelli C, Renzo F, Romano L, et al. Lack of evidence of sexual transmission&nbsp;of hepatitis C among monogamous couples: results of a 10-year prospective follow-up study. Am J Gastroenterol 2004;99:855–9.</p>

  <p>455. Feldman JG, Minkoff H, Landesman S, et al. Heterosexual transmission&nbsp;of hepatitis C, hepatitis B, and HIV-1 in a sample of inner city women. Sex Transm Dis 2000;27:338–42.</p>

  <p>456. Hammer GP, Kellogg TA, McFarland WC, et al. Low incidence and prevalence of hepatitis C virus infection among sexually active non-intravenous drug-using adults, San Francisco, 1997–2000. Sex Transm Dis 2003;30:919–24.</p>

  <p>457. Roy KM, Goldberg DJ, Hutchinson S, et al. Hepatitis C virus among self declared non-injecting sexual partners of injecting drug users. J Med Virol 2004;74:62–6.</p>

  <p>458. Mele A, Stroffolini T, Tosti ME, et al. Heterosexual transmission of hepatitis C in Italy. J Med Virol 1999;57:111–3.</p>

  <p>459. Rauch A, Rickenbach M, Weber R, et al. Unsafe sex and increased incidence of hepatitis C virus infection among HIV-infected men who have sex with men: the Swiss HIV Cohort Study. Clin Infect Dis 2005;41:395–402.</p>

  <p>460. van de Laar TJ, van der Bij AK, Prins M, et al. Increase in HCV incidence&nbsp;among men who have sex with men in Amsterdam most likely caused by sexual transmission. J Infect Dis 2007;196:230–8.</p>

  <p>461. Browne R, Asboe D, Gilleece Y, et al. Increased numbers of acute hepatitis C infections in HIV positive homosexual men: is sexual transmission&nbsp;feeding the increase? Sex Transm Infect 2004;80:326–7.</p>

  <p>462. Danta M, Brown D, Bhagani S, et al. Recent epidemic of acute hepatitis C virus in HIV-positive men who have sex with men linked to high-risk sexual behaviours. AIDS 2007;21:983–91.</p>

  <p>463. Ghosn J, Pierre-Francois S, Thibault V, et al. Acute hepatitis C in HIV-infected men who have sex with men. HIV Med 2004;5:303–6.</p>

  <p>464. van de LT, Pybus O, Bruisten S, et al. Evidence of a large, international network of HCV transmission in HIV-positive men who have sex with men. Gastroenterology 2009;136:1609–17.</p>

  <p>465. Urbanus AT, van de Laar TJ, Stolte IG, et al. Hepatitis C virus infections&nbsp;among HIV-infected men who have sex with men: an expanding epidemic. AIDS 2009;23:F1–F7.</p>

  <p>466. Fierer DS, Uriel AJ, Carriero DC, et al. Liver fibrosis during an outbreak of acute hepatitis C virus infection in HIV-infected men: a prospective cohort study. J Infect Dis 2008;198:683–6.</p>

  <p>467. Briat A, Dulioust E, Galimand J, et al. Hepatitis C virus in the semen of men coinfected with HIV-1: prevalence and origin. AIDS 2005;19:1827–35.</p>

  <p>468. CDC. Guidelines for laboratory testing and result reporting of antibody to hepatitis C virus. MMWR 2003;52(No. RR-3).</p>

  <p>469. Klausner JD, Kohn R, Kent C. Etiology of clinical proctitis among men who have sex with men. Clin Infect Dis 2004;38:300–2.</p>

  <p>470. Rompalo AM. Diagnosis and treatment of sexually acquired proctitis and proctocolitis: an update. Clin Infect Dis 1999;28(Suppl 1):S84–S90.</p>

  <p>471. Chosidow O. Scabies and pediculosis. Lancet 2000;355&nbsp;(9206):819–26.</p>

  <p>472. Meinking TL, Serrano L, Hard B, et al. Comparative in vitro pediculicidal&nbsp;efficacy of treatments in a resistant head lice population in the United States. Arch Dermatol 2002;138:220–4.</p>

  <p>473. Yoon KS, Gao JR, Lee SH, et al. Permethrin-resistant human head lice, Pediculus capitis, and their treatment. Arch Dermatol 2003;139:994–1000.</p>

  <p>474. Mounsey KE, Holt DC, McCarthy J, et al. Scabies: molecular perspectives&nbsp;and therapeutic implications in the face of emerging drug resistance. Future Microbiol 2008;3:57–66.</p>

  <p>475. Barkwell R, Shields S. Deaths associated with ivermectin treatment of scabies. Lancet 1997;349(9059):1144–5.</p>

  <p>476. Roberts LJ, Huffam SE, Walton SF, et al. Crusted scabies: clinical and immunological findings in seventy-eight patients and a review of the literature. J Infect 2005;50:375–81.</p>

  <p>477. Ackerman DR, Sugar NF, Fine DN, et al. Sexual assault victims: factors associated with follow-up care. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2006;194:1653–9.</p>

  <p>478. Parekh V, Brown CB. Follow up of patients who have been recently sexually assaulted. Sex Transm Infect 2003;79:349.</p>

  <p>479. Varghese B, Maher JE, Peterman TA, et al. Reducing the risk of sexual HIV transmission: quantifying the per-act risk for HIV on the basis of choice of partner, sex act, and condom use. Sex Transm Dis 2002;29:38–43.</p>

  <p>480. Cardo DM, Culver DH, Ciesielski CA, et al. A case-control study of HIV seroconversion in health care workers after percutaneous exposure. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Needlestick Surveillance Group. N Engl J Med 1997;337:1485–90.</p>

  <p>481. Du Mont J., Myhr TL, Husson H, et al. HIV postexposure prophylaxis use among Ontario female adolescent sexual assault victims: a prospective&nbsp;analysis. Sex Transm Dis 2008;35:973–8.</p>

  <p>482. Neu N, Heffernan-Vacca S, Millery M, et al. Postexposure prophylaxis for HIV in children and adolescents after sexual assault: a prospective&nbsp;observational study in an urban medical center. Sex Transm Dis 2007;34:65–8.</p>

  <p>483. Loutfy MR, Macdonald S, Myhr T, et al. Prospective cohort study of HIV post-exposure prophylaxis for sexual assault survivors. Antivir Ther 2008;13:87–95.</p>

  <p>484. Kellogg N. The evaluation of sexual abuse in children. Pediatrics 2005;116:506–12.</p>

  <p>485. Girardet RG, Lahoti S, Howard LA, et al. Epidemiology of sexually transmitted infections in suspected child victims of sexual assault. Pediatrics 2009;124:79–86.</p>

  <p>486. Black CM, Driebe EM, Howard LA, et al. Multicenter study of nucleic acid amplification tests for detection of Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae in children being evaluated for sexual abuse. Pediatr Infect Dis J 2009;28:608–13.</p>

  <p>487. Jones V, Smith SJ, Omar HA. Nonsexual transmission of anogenital warts in children: a retrospective analysis. ScientificWorldJournal 2007;7:1896–9.</p>

  <p>488. Smith EM, Swarnavel S, Ritchie JM, et al. Prevalence of human papillomavirus&nbsp;in the oral cavity/oropharynx in a large population of children and adolescents. Pediatr Infect Dis J 2007;26:836–40.</p>

  <p>489. Havens PL. Postexposure prophylaxis in children and adolescents for nonoccupational exposure to human immunodeficiency virus. Pediatrics 2003;111(6 Pt 1):1475–89.</p>
</body>
</html>
