<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
  <h2 id="heading_id_2">Women Who Have Sex with Women</h2>

  <p>Women who have sex with women (WSW) are a diverse group with variations in sexual identity, sexual behaviors, sexual practices, and risk behaviors. Recent studies indicate that some WSW, particularly adolescents, young women, and women with both male and female partners, might be at increased risk for STDs and HIV as a result of certain reported risk behaviors (109–112). WSW are at risk for acquiring bacterial, viral, and&nbsp;protozoal infections from current and prior partners, both male and female. WSW should not be presumed to be at low or no risk for STDs based on sexual orientation. Effective screening requires that providers and their female clients engage in a comprehensive and open discussion not only about sexual identify, but sexual and behavioral risks.</p>

  <p>Few data are available on the risk for STDs transmitted by sex between women, but risk probably varies by the specific STD and sexual practice (e.g., oral-genital sex; vaginal or anal sex using hands, fingers, or penetrative sex items; and oral-anal sex [113,114]). Practices involving digital-vaginal or digital-anal contact, particularly with shared penetrative sex items, present a possible means for transmission of infected cervico-vaginal secretions. This possibility is most directly supported by reports of metronidazole-resistant trichomoniasis (115) and genotype-concordant HIV transmitted sexually between women who reported these behaviors (116) and by the high prevalence of BV among monogamous WSW (117).</p>

  <p>Transmission of HPV can occur with skin-to-skin or skin-to-mucosa contact, which can occur during sex between women. HPV DNA has been detected through polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based methods from the cervix, vagina, and vulva in 13%–30% of WSW, and high- and low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (SIL) have been detected on Pap tests in WSW who reported no previous sex with men (118). However, most self-identified WSW (53%–99%) report having had sex with men and indicate that they might continue this practice in the future (119). Therefore, routine cervical cancer screening should be offered to all women, regardless of sexual preference or sexual practices, and women should be offered HPV vaccine in accordance with current guidelines.</p>

  <p>Limited data demonstrate that HSV-2 genital transmission between female sex partners is probably inefficient but can occur. The relatively frequent practice of orogenital sex among WSW might place them at higher risk for genital infection with herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1), a hypothesis supported by the recognized association between HSV-1 seropositivity and number of female partners among WSW (120).</p>

  <p>Although the rate of transmission of C. trachomatis between women remains largely unknown, infection also can be acquired from past or current male partners. Recent data suggest that C. trachomatis infection among WSW might be more common than previously thought (121); transmission of syphilis between female sex partners (likely through oral sex) also has been reported. Therefore, report of same-sex behavior in women should not deter providers from screening these women for STDs, including chlamydia and syphilis, as recommended.</p>

  <p>BV is common among women in general and even more so among women with female partners. Sexual behaviors that&nbsp;facilitate the transfer of vaginal fluid and/or bacteria between partners might be involved in the pathogenesis of BV. A recent study demonstrated that female sex partners frequently share identical genital Lactobacillus strains (122). Although BV is common in WSW, routine screening for BV is not recom- mended, nor is the treatment of partners of women with BV. Encouraging awareness of signs and symptoms of BV in women and encouraging healthy sexual practices (e.g., cleaning shared sex toys between uses) might be helpful.</p>
</body>
</html>
