<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
  <h1 id="heading_id_2">Special Populations</h1>

  <h2 id="heading_id_3">Pregnant Women</h2>

  <p>Intrauterine or perinatally transmitted STDs can have severely debilitating effects on pregnant women, their partners, and their fetuses. All pregnant women and their sex partners should be asked about STDs, counseled about the possibility of perinatal infections, and provided access to treatment, if needed.</p>

  <p>Recommended Screening Tests</p>

  <p>• All pregnant women in the United States should be screened for HIV infection as early in pregnancy as possible (77). Screening should be conducted after the woman is notified that she will be screened for HIV as part of the routine panel of prenatal tests, unless she declines (i.e., opt-out screening). For women who decline HIV testing, providers should address their objections, and when appropriate, continue to encourage testing strongly. Women who decline testing because they have had a previous negative HIV test should be informed of the importance of retesting during each pregnancy. Testing</p>

  <p>pregnant women and treating those who are infected are vital not only to maintain the health of the patient, but to reduce perinatal transmission of HIV through available antiretroviral and obstetrical interventions. Retesting in the third trimester (preferably before 36 weeks’ gestation) is recommended for women at high risk for acquiring HIV infection (e.g., women who use illicit drugs, have STDs during pregnancy, have multiple sex partners dur- ing pregnancy, live in areas with high HIV prevalence, or have HIV-infected partners). Rapid HIV screening should be performed on any woman in labor who has an undocumented HIV status unless she declines. If a rapid HIV test result is positive in these women, antiretroviral prophylaxis should be administered without waiting for the results of the confirmatory test (78).</p>

  <p>• A serologic test for syphilis should be performed on all pregnant women at the first prenatal visit (79). In populations in which the amount of prenatal care deliv- ered is not optimal, rapid plasma reagin (RPR) card test screening (and treatment, if that test is reactive) should be performed at the time that a pregnancy is confirmed. Women who are at high risk for syphilis, live in areas of high syphilis morbidity, or are previously untested should be screened again early in the third trimester (at approximately 28 weeks’ gestation) and at delivery. Some states require all women to be screened at deliv- ery. Infants should not be discharged from the hospital unless the syphilis serologic status of the mother has been determined at least one time during pregnancy and preferably again at delivery. Any woman who delivers a stillborn infant should be tested for syphilis.</p>

  <p>• All pregnant women should be routinely tested for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) during an early prenatal visit (i.e., a visit during the first trimester), even if they have been previously vaccinated or tested (80). Women who were not screened prenatally, those who engage in behaviors that put them at high risk for infection (e.g., having had more than one sex partner in the previous 6 months, evaluation or treatment for an STD, recent or current injection-drug use, and an HBsAg-positive sex partner) and those with clinical hepatitis should be retested at the time of admission to the hospital for delivery. Pregnant women at risk for HBV infection also should be vaccinated. To avoid misinterpreting a transient positive HBsAg result during the 21 days after vaccination, HBsAg testing should be performed before vaccine administration. All laboratories that conduct HBsAg tests should use an FDA-cleared HBsAg test and perform testing according to the manufacturer’s labeling, including testing of initially reactive specimens with a&nbsp;licensed neutralizing confirmatory test. When pregnant women are tested for HBsAg at the time of admission for delivery, shortened testing protocols can be used, and initially reactive results should prompt expedited administration of immunoprophylaxis to infants (80).</p>

  <p>• All pregnant women should be routinely screened for Chlamydia trachomatis (see Chlamydia Infections, Diagnostic Considerations) during the first prenatal visit (81). Women aged ≤25 years and those at increased risk for chlamydia (e.g., women who have a new or more than one sex partner) also should be retested during the third trimester to prevent maternal postnatal complications and chlamydial infection in the infant. Women found to have chlamydial infection during the first trimester should be retested within approximately 3–6 months, preferably in the third trimester. Screening during the first trimester might prevent the adverse effects of chla- mydia during pregnancy, but supportive evidence for such screening is lacking.</p>

  <p>• All pregnant women at risk for gonorrhea or living in an area in which the prevalence of Neisseria gonorrhoeae is high should be screened at the first prenatal visit for N. gonorrhoeae (82). Women aged &lt;25 years are at high- est risk for gonorrhea infection. Other risk factors for gonorrhea include a previous gonorrhea infection, other STDs, new or multiple sex partners, inconsistent con- dom use, commercial sex work, and drug use. Pregnant women found to have gonococcal infection during the first trimester should be retested within approximately 3–6 months, preferably in the third trimester. Uninfected pregnant women who remain at high risk for gonococcal infection also should be retested during the third trimester.</p>

  <p>• All pregnant women at high risk for hepatitis C infec- tion should be screened for hepatitis C antibodies (see Hepatitis C, Diagnostic Considerations) at the first prenatal visit. Women at high risk include those with a history of injection-drug use and those with a history of blood transfusion or organ transplantion before 1992.</p>

  <p>• Pregnant women should undergo a Papanicolau (Pap) test at the same frequency as nonpregnant women, although recommendations for their management differ (83,84).</p>

  <p>Other Tests</p>

  <p>• Evidence does not support routine testing for bacterial vaginosis (BV) in pregnancy. For asymptomatic pregnant women at high risk for preterm delivery, evidence is insufficient to assess the balance of benefits and harms of screening for BV (85). Symptomatic women should be evaluated and treated (see Bacterial Vaginosis).</p>

  <p>• Evidence does not support routine screening for Trichomonas vaginalis in asymptomatic pregnant women. Women who report symptoms should be evaluated and treated appropriately (see Trichomonas).</p>

  <p>• Evidence does not support routine HSV-2 serologic screening among previously undiagnosed women during pregnancy.</p>

  <p>Other Concerns</p>

  <p>• Pregnant women who are HBsAg positive should be reported to the local or state health department to ensure that they are entered into a case-management system and that timely and appropriate prophylaxis is provided for their infants. Information concerning the pregnant woman’s HBsAg status should be provided to the hospital in which delivery is planned and to the health-care provider who will care for the newborn. In addition, household and sex contacts of women who are HBsAg positive should be vaccinated.</p>

  <p>• Women who are HBsAg positive should be provided with, or referred for, appropriate counseling and medical management. Pregnant women who are HBsAg positive should receive information regarding hepatitis B that addresses:</p>

  <p>– modes of transmission;&nbsp;</p>

  <p>– perinatal concerns (e.g., breastfeeding is not&nbsp;contraindicated);&nbsp;</p>

  <p>– prevention of HBV transmission, including the&nbsp;importance of postexposure prophylaxis for the newborn infant and hepatitis B vaccination for household contacts and sex partners; and</p>

  <p>– evaluation for and treatment of chronic HBV infection.</p>

  <p>• No treatment is available for pregnant women infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV). However, all women with HCV infection should receive appropriate counseling and supportive care as needed (see Hepatitis C, Prevention). No vaccine is available to prevent HCV transmission.</p>

  <p>• In the absence of lesions during the third trimester, routine serial cultures for herpes simplex virus (HSV) are not indicated for women who have a history of recurrent genital herpes. Prophylactic cesarean delivery is not indicated for women who do not have active genital lesions at the time of delivery.</p>

  <p>• The presence of genital warts is not an indication for cesarean delivery.</p>

  <p>For a more detailed discussion of STD testing and treatment among pregnant women, refer to the following references: <i>Prenatal screening for HIV: A Review of the evidence for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (86); Revised&nbsp;Recommendations for HIV Testing of Adults, Adolescents, and Pregnant Women in Health-Care Setting (77); Guidelines for Perinatal Care (87); Rapid HIV Antibody Testing During Labor and Delivery for Women of Unknown HIV Status: A Practical Guide and Model Protocol (88); Viral Hepatitis in Pregnancy (89); Hepatitis B Virus: A Comprehensive Strategy for Eliminating Transmission in the United States — Recommendations of the Immunization Practices Advisory Committee (ACIP) (4); ScreeningforChlamydialInfection:U.S.PreventiveServicesTask Force Recommendation Statement (81); Canadian guidelines on sexually transmitted infections (90); USPSTF recommendations for STI screening (91); and Screening for Bacterial Vaginosis in Pregnancy to Prevent Preterm Delivery: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force Recommendation Statement (85).</i></p>

  <p>Recommendations to screen pregnant women for STDs are based on disease severity and sequelae, prevalence in the population, costs, medicolegal considerations (e.g., state laws), and other factors. The screening recommendations in this report are generally broader (i.e., if followed, more women will be screened for more STDs than would by following other screening recommendations) and are also consistent with other CDC guidelines.</p>
</body>
</html>
