<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
  <h2 id="heading_id_2">Persons in Correctional Facilities</h2>

  <p>Multiple studies have demonstrated that persons entering correctional facilities have high rates of STDs (including HIV) and viral hepatitis, especially those aged ≤35 years (93). Incarcerated persons are more likely to have low socioeconomic status, live in urban areas, and be ethnic and racial minorities. Risk behaviors for contracting STDs (e.g., having unprotected sex; having multiple sexual partners; using drugs and alcohol; and engaging in commercial, survival [prostitution to earn money for food, shelter, or drugs], or coerced sex) are common among incarcerated populations. Before incarceration, many have had limited access to medical care, especially to community-based clinical prevention services.</p>

  <p>Although no comprehensive national guidelines regarding STD care and management have been developed for correctional populations, the utility of expanded STD services in correctional settings has been reported (100). Capacity to provide STD care also varies by type of correctional facility. For example, local juvenile detention facilities and jails are short-term facilities (often housing entrants for ≤1 year) where up to half of all entrants are released back to the community within 48 hours of arrest, thereby complicating efforts to provide comprehensive STD services. These services are likely more conducive to prisons and state juvenile confinement facilities, which are long-term, secure facilities where entrants are held for a longer period of time.</p>

  <p>Most institutions, especially those for adults, do not routinely screen for STDs. Diagnostic testing of inmates with symptoms indicative of an STD is the more common practice in juvenile detention and jail facilities. However, screening for asymptomatic infections facilitates the identification and&nbsp;treatment of persons with otherwise undetected infections, which not only eliminates complications for the individual, but reduces the prevalence of infection among detainees who are released back into the local community.</p>

  <p>Females in juvenile detention facilities and young women ≤35 years of age have been reported to have high rates of chla- mydia (101) and gonorrhea (93). Syphilis seroprevalence rates, which can indicate previous infection, are considerably higher among adult men and women than in adolescents, consistent with the overall national syphilis trends (102).</p>

  <p>Chlamydia and Gonorrhea Screening</p>

  <p>Universal screening of adolescent females for chlamydia and gonorrhea should be conducted at intake in juvenile detention or jail facilities. Universal screening of adult females should be conducted at intake among adult females up to 35 years of age (or on the basis of local institutional prevalence data).</p>

  <p>Syphilis Screening</p>

  <p>Universal screening should be conducted on the basis of the local area and institutional prevalence of early (primary, secondary, and early latent) infectious syphilis.</p>
</body>
</html>
