<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
  <h2 id="heading_id_2">Adolescents</h2>

  <p>In the United States, prevalence rates of many sexually acquired infections are highest among adolescents (92,93). For example, the reported rates of chlamydia and gonorrhea are highest among females aged 15–19 years, and many persons acquire HPV infection during their adolescent years.</p>

  <p>Persons who initiate sex early in adolescence are at higher risk for STDs, along with persons residing in detention facilities, attending STD clinics, young men having sex with men (YMSM), and youth who use injection drugs. Factors contributing to this increased risk during adolescence include having multiple sexual partners concurrently, having sequential sexual partnerships of limited duration, failing to use barrier protection consistently and correctly, having increased biologic susceptibility to infection, and experiencing multiple obstacles to accessing health care (92).</p>

  <p>All 50 states and the District of Columbia explicitly allow minors to consent for their own health services for STDs. No state requires parental consent for STD care or requires that providers notify parents that an adolescent minor has received STD services, except in limited or unusual circumstances.</p>

  <p>Protecting confidentiality for such care, particularly for adolescents enrolled in private health insurance plans, presents multiple problems. After a claim has been reported, many states mandate that health plans provide a written statement to a beneficiary indicating the benefits and charges covered or not</p>

  <p>covered by the health plan (i.e., explanation of benefit [EOB]). In addition, federal laws obligate notices to beneficiaries when claims are denied, including alerting consumers who need to pay for care until the allowable deductable is reached. For STD detection- and treatment-related care, an EOB or medical bill that is received by a parent might disclose services provided and list any laboratory tests performed. This type of mandated notification breeches confidentiality, and at a minimum, could promptparentsandguardianstoquestionthecostsandreasons for service provision.</p>

  <p>Despite the high rates of infections documented in the adolescent population, providers frequently fail to inquire about sexual behaviors, assess STD risks, provide risk reduc- tion counseling, and ultimately, fail to screen for asymptomatic infections during clinical encounters. Sexual health discussions should be appropriate for the patient’s developmental level and should be aimed at identifying risk behaviors (e.g., unprotected oral, anal, or vaginal sex and drug-use behaviors). Careful, nonjudgmental, and thorough counseling is particularly vital for adolescents who might not feel comfortable acknowledging their engagement in behaviors that place them at high risk for STDs.</p>

  <p>Screening Recommendations</p>

  <p>Routine laboratory screening for common STDs is indi- cated for sexually active adolescents. The following screening recommendations summarize published federal agency and medical professional organizations’ clinical guidelines for sexu- ally active adolescents:</p>

  <p>• Routine screening for C. trachomatis of all sexually active females aged ≤25 years is recommended annually (81). Evidence is insufficient to recommend routine screening for C. trachomatis in sexually active young men based on feasibility, efficacy, and cost-effectiveness. However, screening of sexually active young men should be considered in clinical settings associated with high prevalence of chlamydia (e.g., adolescent clinics, correctional facilities, and STD clinics) (81,94).</p>

  <p>• Routine screening for N. gonorrhoeae in all sexually active women at risk for infection is recommended annually (82). Women aged &lt;25 years are at highest risk for gonorrhea infection. Other risk factors that place women at increased risk include a previous gonorrhea infection, the presence of other STDs, new or multiple sex partners, inconsistent condom use, commercial sex work, and drug use.</p>

  <p>• HIV screening should be discussed with all adolescents and encouraged for those who are sexually active and those who use injection drugs (77,95).</p>

  <p>•&nbsp;The routine screening of adolescents who are asymp- tomatic for certain STDs (e.g., syphilis, trichomoniasis, BV, HSV, HPV, HAV, and HBV) is not recommended. However, YMSM and pregnant adolescent females might require more thorough evaluation.<br /></p>

  <p>• Guidelines from USPSTF and ACOG recommend that cervical cancer screening begin at age 21 years (96,97), a recommendation based on the low incidence of cervical cancer and limited utility of screening for younger adolescents (98). However, the American Cancer Society (ACS) recommends that women start cervical screening with Pap tests 3 years after initiating sexual activity, but by no later than age 21 years (99).</p>

  <p>Primary Prevention Recommendations</p>

  <p>Primary prevention and anticipatory guidance to recognize symptoms and behaviors associated with STDs are strategies that can be incorporated into any or all types of health-care visits. The following recommendations for primary prevention of STDs (i.e., vaccination and counseling) are based on published federal agency and medical professional organizations’ clinical guidelines for sexually active adolescents:</p>

  <p>• The HPV vaccine, either Cervarix or Gardasil, is recommended for 11 and 12 year-old females. The vaccine series can be started at 9 years of age. Catch-up vaccination is recommended for females aged 13–26 years who have not yet received or completed the vaccine series (16). The quadrivalent (Gardasil) HPV vaccine can also be used in males and females aged 9–26 years to prevent genital warts (17).</p>

  <p>• The HBV vaccination series is recommended for all adolescents. Adolescents who have not previously received hepatitis B vaccine should be vaccinated routinely at any age with an appropriate dose and schedule (3,4).</p>

  <p>• The HAV vaccination series for children and adolescents aged 2–18 years should be offered in areas with existing hepatitis A vaccination programs. In areas without existing hepatitis A vaccination programs, catch-up vaccination of unvaccinated children aged 2–18 years can be considered (2).</p>

  <p>• Information regarding HIV infection, testing, transmission, and implications of infection should be regarded as an essential component of the anticipatory guidance provided to all adolescents as part of health care (77).</p>

  <p>• Health-care providers who care for children and adolescents should integrate sexuality education into clinical practice. Providers should counsel adolescents about the sexual behaviors that are associated with risk for acquiring STDs and should educate patients using evidence-based prevention strategies, all of which include a discussion&nbsp;about abstinence and other risk-reduction behaviors (e.g., consistent and correct condom use). USPSTF recom- mends high-intensity behavioral counseling to prevent STIs* for all sexually active adolescents (6).</p>

  <p>* STI is the term used by USPSTF to describe the syndromes caused by various pathogens that can be acquired and transmitted through sexual activity.<br /></p>
</body>
</html>
